- 1 -
Fighting for
Europe
Dear Europeans,
The fundamental values of the European Union – democracy, the rule of
law and human rights – are the essence of our community. They guarantee
us prosperity and security in peace. A common single market, unrestricted
travel and cultural diversity have become a matter of course for us. But
our liberal union of economics and peace is under massive threat from
destabilisation efforts internally by extremist forces and external attacks
by autocratic states. We must resolutely defend our values more than ever
before. We Liberal Democrats stand ready. Our mission is to preserve
freedom and prosperity for coming generations. We strengthen Europe’s
economy, security and independence, because Europe is our future.
Yours sincerely,
Marie-Agnes
Strack-Zimmermann
- 2 -
Combatting monstrous
bureaucracy.
Ever-increasing bureaucracy is a burden on people and businesses in
Germany. Many of these regulations come from Europe under the super-
vision of EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen (CDU). We want
to radically reduce bureaucracy by striking down two old regulations for
every new one that’s introduced by Brussels, because dismantling bu-
reaucracy brings growth and costs nothing.
Administration that also
speaks English.
Communicating with official authorities should be easier for everyone in
Europe. This is why we want communication in administrative processes
to be possible in English in every EU country. This will make life simpler
for EU citizens and companies.
Prosperity through
more free trade.
We want to preserve our prosperity. Food must remain affordable, and
our economy must return to growth. To achieve this, we want to reinforce
trade with other countries with the aim of creating a global free trade zone
of the world’s democracies.
- 3 -
More skilled personnel
for our economy.
The shortage of skilled workers weakens the economy and leads to rising
prices, so we want to further expand the European single market for work,
energy, capital and digital services.
Simplify working anywhere.
Every door has to be open to motivated people. Anyone wanting to work in
another country should be able to start their new job without unnecessary
complications. And any employers looking to hire citizens from another
EU country shouldn’t be drowned in bureaucracy.
Defending Europe together.
We must defend our freedom, and we can only do that together. As such,
we want to build up a European defence union as quickly as possible and
develop it into a European army over time.
The ability to act in
times of crisis.
Europe must be able to act quickly. At present however, individual coun-
tries can block important foreign policy and security policy decisions.
Doing away with this veto right will increase the European Union’s capaci-
ty for effective action.
An unassailable Europe.
The technologies developed in Europe for our continent’s defence must
be bolstered. We want to achieve this by expanding the European Defence
Fund and joint armament acquisition. In addition, we need uniform regula-
tions in every EU country for exporting arms.
- 4 -
Climate protection via the
market economy.
We want to protect our climate using instruments of the market economy.
The European Union Emissions Trading System’s receding greenhouse
gas limit guarantees effectiveness and efficiency. We also want to enable
CO2 storage technologies.
Invention over prohibition.
We need a secure energy supply and climate-friendly mobility, so we en-
dorse an open-minded attitude toward technology and human inventive-
ness. E-fuels, fusion technology and other innovations can help us master
the challenges of our time.
Artificial Intelligence
“Made in Europe”.
We want to take advantage of the opportunities AI provides in every sec-
tor. We therefore need clear, simple regulations that promote innovation
while ensuring the protection of civil rights to make Europe an AI hotspot.
- 5 -
Combatting inflation.
We view battling inflation as the top priority for preserving our
prosperity, so we stand for financial stability in the EU. Govern-
ment spending cannot be permitted to grow without limits. With
us, there will be no joining in on mutual debt with other countries.
Career development
opportunities through
education.
Career development opportunities and attractive jobs come
only through education and training. We want to open up new
perspectives for young people in dual vocational training
professions with Erasmus+. Educational access and mobility
should become a new basic right.
Order and control in migration.
We stand for a new pragmatic political approach to irregular
migration. We can reduce irregular migration with faster asylum
procedures at asylum centres located at the EU’s external borders
or in third countries. Deportation must be conducted consistently
when asylum applications are rejected.
- 6 -
5 reasons to vote for the FDP:
1. A vote for more prosperity
We want to enhance the single market, strengthen the social mar-
ket economy in Europe and enter into free trade agreements with
our partners.
2. A vote for more security
We want to increase Europe’s defensive capabilities, expand arms
acquisition and accelerate decision-making in the EU’s joint for-
eign and security policy.
3. A vote for more educational and career
development opportunities
We want to simplify the process of taking advantage of opportuni-
ties to study abroad, to participate in vocational training through-
out Europe and to accept job offers in the EU.
4. A vote for more innovation
We want Europe to become an innovation champion through an
openness toward technology instead of bans, and through better
terms for private investments and the foundation of new compa-
nies.
5. A vote for less bureaucracy
We want to liberate the economy and the people in Europe from
paralysing bureaucratic red tape, thereby providing new impulses
for growth and progress.
Impressum:
Free Democratic Party (FDP)
Reinhardtstrasse 14
10117 Berlin, Germany
Tel.: +49 (0)30 284958-0
E-Mail: info@fdp.de
@FDP, @strackzimmermann
@fdp, @MAStrackZi
@strackzimmermann
@FDP, @mastrackzimmermann
On
9 June
FDP
