Programme
Of the DIE LINKE Party
DIE LINKE
Resolution of the Party Congress,
Erfurt, 21 to 23 October 2011,
approved through a vote by the party membership on December 2011
Bertolt Brecht
Questions from a Worker Who Reads
Who built the seven gated Thebes?
In the books you can read the names of kings.
Did the kings haul up the lumps of rock?
And the many times destroyed Babylon –
Who rebuilt it so many times? In which houses
of the golden shining Lima did its builders live?
Where went the masons the evening the Chinese Wall
was completed? The great Rome
is full of triumphal archs. Who raised them? Over whom
the emperors prevailed? Had the much sung about Byzantium
palaces only for its inhabitants? Even in legendary Atlantis,
when the sea was devouring it at night,
the drowning yelled at their slaves.
The young Alexander conquered India.
He alone?
Caesar defeated the Gauls.
Was not at least a cook with him?
Philipp of Spain cried, when his fleet
went down. No one else cried?
Frederick the Second won the Seven Years’ War. Who
won it beside him?
Every page a victory.
Who cooked the victory feast?
Every ten years one great man.
Who paid the expense?
So many reports.
So many questions.
Table of Contents
Preamble – what DIE LINKE stands for........................................................4
1. Where we come from, who we are.........................................................9
2. Crises of capitalism – crises of civilisation.............................................14
3. Democratic socialism in the 21st century .............................................27
4. Left reform projects –
Steps toward societal transformation.......................................................34
4.1 How do we want to live?
Good work, social security and justice......................................................35
4.2 How do we want to make decisions?
Democratisation of society........................................................................44
4.3 How do we want to do research and learn?
Free access to education and knowledge .................................................57
4.4 How do we preserve nature and society?
Socio-ecological reconstruction ................................................................61
4.5 How do we want to radically remodel the European Union?
Democracy, the welfare state, ecology and peace ...................................67
4.6 How do we bring about peace?
Disarmament, collective security and joint development .......................70
5. Together for a policy change and a better society................................74
4 Preamble – what DIE LINKE stands for
Preamble – what DIE LINKE stands for
DIE LINKE as a socialist party stands for
alternatives, for a better future. We
democratic socialists, the democratic left
with different political biographies, ideo-
logical and religious influences, women
and men, old and young, established and
immigrants, people with and without
disabilities, have come together in a new
left party. We cling to the dream of man-
kind that a better world is possible.
We are not and will not be like those
parties that obsequiously submit to the
wishes of the economically powerful and
for that very reason can scarcely be told
apart. We pursue a concrete goal: we
fight for a society in which no child has
to grow up poor, in which all men and
women can live a self-determined life in
peace, dignity and social security and
can democratically shape social rela-
tions. To achieve this we need a different
economic and social system: democratic
socialism.
We want to use the grandiose ideas, the
visions and creative forces of men and
women for convincing political projects,
to overcome hunger and poverty, to get
the consequences of climate change and
environmental disasters under control.
We are not prepared to accept a world in
which profit interests determine the
prospects of millions of men and women
and in which exploitation, war and impe-
rialism cut whole countries off from
hope and the future. Where profit rules
above all else, there is little space for
democracy. The untrammelled freedom
of the big corporations means bondage
for the majority of men and women.
We proceed from the traditions of de-
mocracy and socialism, of the struggles
for human rights and emancipation,
against fascism and racism, imperialism
and militarism. We want to overcome all
social relationships in which people are
exploited, disenfranchised and deprived
of the right to make their own decisions
and in which the social and natural
foundations of their lives are destroyed.
We want to use the new possibilities of
knowledge acquisition, cultural exchange
and communication for a future that is
worth living. We want to expand the rule
of law and the welfare state so that
women and men can make sovereign
decisions concerning their working and
living time and can seize opportunities to
participate, to acquire education and to
be there for one another socially.
Limitless wealth for the upper echelons,
humiliation for the growing mass of the
poor and decreasing prosperity for the
vast majority are not the result of the
internationalisation of production and
trade but of global capitalism. The con-
sequences for Germany are omnipre-
sent: a growing low-wage sector, annihi-
lation of jobs, cutbacks in social benefits,
impoverished municipalities, the lack of
training places, social privileges in educa-
tion, two-tier medicine, elderly people in
poverty or without decent care. Current
politics has been subordinated to the
interests of corporate bosses and the
wealthy. This agenda runs counter to the
interests of the majority of the people.
We believe in global co-operation rather
than the concept that might makes right.
A world under the diktat of an omnipo-
tent global capitalism is not a world
Preamble – what DIE LINKE stands for 5
worth striving for. Business and politics
must be centred on the vital needs and
interests of the majority of the people.
We want to help turn passive resent-
ment into active resistance. We put up
resistance to wage dumping, the robbing
of welfare recipients and the selling off
of public property. We want to change
the balance of social power, and are
fighting for a different policy. Democracy.
freedom, equality, justice, international-
ism and solidarity are among our fun-
damental values. They are inseparable
from peace, the conservation of nature
and emancipation. We are fighting for a
system change because capitalism,
which is based on inequality, exploita-
tion, expansion and competition, is in-
compatible with those goals.
We have united in a new political force
that stands for freedom and equality,
fights resolutely for peace, is democratic
and social, ecological and feminist, open
and plural, militant and tolerant. Togeth-
er with citizens in Germany, in Europe
and throughout the world, with trade
unions and movements, we are looking
for alternative solutions and social alter-
natives. We want to build a society of
democratic socialism in which reciprocal
recognition of the freedom and equality
of every individual is the condition for
the development of all in solidarity. We
are fighting for a change of course in
politics that will open the way for a fun-
damental transformation of society, that
will overcome capitalism.
Three basic ideas are linked togeth-
er in our Programme:
individual freedom and personal de-
velopment for everyone through a so-
cially equal share in the conditions for a
self-determined life and solidarity; we
consider that to be the first guiding prin-
ciple of a solidarity-based society. In it,
the dominance of profit is overcome and
reliable and good living conditions for all
are the goal of economic management;
the subordination of the economy to
development in solidarity and the con-
servation of nature. We regard that as
the second guiding principle. It requires
a social and ecological conversion to
sustainable development instead of
profit-oriented growth.
The realisation of these two dimen-
sions is a long emancipatory process in
which the dominance of capital will be
overcome by democratic, social and
ecological forces and the society of
democratic socialism will emerge.
DIE LINKE fights
for a different, democratic economic
order that subjects the market regula-
tion of production and distribution to
democratic, social and ecological framing
and control. It has to be based on public
and democratically controlled ownership
in services of general interest, of the
social infrastructure, in the power indus-
try and in the financial sector. We want
the democratic socialisation of further
structurally relevant areas on the basis of
state, municipal, co-operative or work-
force ownership. Business must be sub-
ject to stringent competition control.
Effective employee rights and co-
determination rights must be assured in
all enterprises.
for a socio-ecological transformation
in the direction of sustainable, resource-
saving and environment-conserving
economies and lives. We need regulated,
6 Preamble – what DIE LINKE stands for
sustainable development in conjunction
with more social justice. We want a
change in energy policy based on re-
newable energies, without nuclear pow-
er, that is not at the expense of the
people in the global south and is not
attained through the destruction of fur-
ther environmental resources.
for the right to a good job providing
an adequate livelihood. Good work for
everyone, but less work for each individ-
ual – that is what we want by way of
new full employment. DIE LINKE stands
for the redistribution of work through
shorter working hours, for equal pay for
equal work and a statutory minimum
wage providing an adequate livelihood.
We stand for comprehensive protection
against dismissal and we fight against
cheap jobs, starvation wages and the
replacement of the regular workforce by
temporary agency work or bogus self-
employment.
for an inclusive society in which every
man and woman finds overall conditions
in which they can develop their skills,
capabilities and talents, no one stands
outside society and everyone can make a
contribution.
for fair distribution of all jobs be-
tween the sexes. There should be
enough time in the lives of men and
women for gainful employment, for the
family, care for children, partners and
friends, for political engagement, for
individual continuing education, leisure
and culture. DIE LINKE advocates that all
people should be given more scope to
decide how to spend their lives. Advoca-
cy for being able to dispose of one's time
is our response to a history of oppres-
sion, domination over labour and dis-
posal over others.
for a life in social security, for a penal-
ty-free, poverty-proof guaranteed mini-
mum income and comprehensive pro-
tection against dismissal. Hartz IV has to
go. Everyone has the right to work and
the right to reject concrete job offers
without having to fear suspension of
benefits or other penalties.
for a poverty-proof, solidarity-based
statutory pension for all gainfully em-
ployed persons that is funded equally by
employees and enterprises, ensures
maintenance of one's standard of living
in old age and, unlike private pension
provision, does not depend on the vaga-
ries of the financial markets. A society
that condemns millions of elderly people
to live in poverty is inhuman. To combat
poverty in old age, we want a poverty-
proof, solidarity-based minimum pension
for elderly persons within the framework
of retirement insurance.
for solidarity-based citizen insurance
for health and care that all people pay
into depending on their income and that
covers all medical and nursing services in
case of need. Medical care must not be a
question of one's personal wallet – we
reject the unequal treatment of patients.
for good, free education accessible to
all from the day-nursery through train-
ing and higher education to continuing
education. Education should create the
foundations for a self-determined, soli-
darity-based life, active participation in
society and democratic engagement.
for cultural diversity and the participa-
tion of all in the cultural riches of society,
for cultural education from the very
beginning. All people should have the
possibility of cultural self-expression and
of participating in cultural communica-
Preamble – what DIE LINKE stands for 7
tion. The state has the obligation to pro-
tect and promote culture.
for a fair taxation system that reduces
the burden on low and medium earners,
increases the load on top earners and
draws substantially more on large for-
tunes, inheritances, capital gains and
corporate profits to finance the common
weal and socio-ecological transforma-
tion. We want to redistribute income
and assets from the top to the bottom
and ensure and improve the funding of
public services.
for the implementation of democracy
and the rule of law, against the extor-
tionate power of big corporations, for
the prohibition of corporate donations to
political parties and the incompatibility
of political and economic mandates, for
more direct democracy in the form of
referenda and in other forms, for the
enforceability of one's rights regardless
of one's ability to pay, for political strikes
and the general strike as employees'
weapons, for the expansion of civil rights
and the democratisation of all spheres of
society. Capitalism destroys democracy
by means of economic power. We there-
fore say: democracy and freedom in a
society of democratic socialism without
exploitation and oppression.
for the abolition of every form of
discrimination based on gender, age,
social status, philosophy, religion, ethnic
origin, sexual orientation and identity or
based on disabilities of any kind. For DIE
LINKE, active antifascism is linked with
the struggle against warmongering, anti-
Semitism, Islamophobia, racism and
national arrogance.
for restarting the European Union as a
democratic, social, ecological and peace-
ful union, for giving priority to social
rights over domestic market freedoms,
for high and better European minimum
standards of social and environmental
protection and of corporate and wealth
taxes, for a democratically controlled
European Central Bank and a coordi-
nated and democratically controlled
economic policy that counters competi-
tive undercutting through degradation of
wages, working conditions, social bene-
fits and environmental standards. An EU
that counts on locational and other
competition and the dumping race and
military backup for it discredits the Eu-
ropean idea.
for peace and disarmament, against
imperialism and war, for a world with-
out weapons of mass destruction, the
prohibition of arms exports and the con-
version of the arms industry to civilian
production, i.e. the promotion of wea-
pons conversion. DIE LINKE will never
agree to German participation in a war.
War does not solve any problems, it is
always part of the problem. The Bun-
deswehr must be withdrawn from all
foreign operations, its domestic deploy-
ment must be strictly forbidden; the
State of Emergency laws providing for
and allowing domestic deployment of
the Bundeswehr must be repealed. DIE
LINKE demands respect for international
law and human rights, the strengthening
of civilian development support, conflict
prevention, peaceful conflict resolution
and an end to the economic exploitation
of the Third World.
For international solidarity and coop-
eration in improving living conditions for
all people. The world is rich enough to
sensibly feed the whole of mankind. We
stand in solidarity with all those who
8 Preamble – what DIE LINKE stands for
fight for peace, social and political justice
and the realization of human dignity
.
9 Where we come from, who we are
1. Where we come from, who we are
DIE LINKE builds on the left democratic
positions and traditions of the socialist,
social democratic and communist labour
movements and feminist and other
emancipation movements. We combine
political experience from the German
Democratic Republic and the Federal
Republic of Germany.
The bourgeois revolutions of the 18th
and 19th centuries aspired to liberty,
equality and fraternity and opposed
religious dogmas and the privileges of
the nobility. Humanism and enlighten-
ment, human rights and democracy
were decisive for the labour movement
and the women's movement. They de-
manded the realisation of justice and
freedom for all people. But the socialist
perspective of liberty and equality for all
people will only be achieved when they
are liberated from the domination of
capital and from patriarchal relation-
ships. That was shown in particular by
Marx, Engels and Luxemburg.
In the 19th century, working men and
women became organised in trade un-
ions. They put up resistance to exploita-
tion by capital in order to assert their
interests. They fought for better working
and living conditions, higher incomes
and co-determination rights. They
formed co-operatives and associations to
shape their everyday and leisure time in
solidarity and to fulfil their cultural and
educational ambitions. As the working
class environment became increasingly
politicised, the labour movement also
evolved bodies to defend its political
interests. These were vehemently com-
bated by the state with carrot and stick,
with social reforms and the Anti-Socialist
Laws. Despite this, social democracy
became a powerful political and cultural
force in Germany on the threshold of the
20th century, and we are committed to
its traditions.
At the beginning of the 19th century, the
women's movement gained strength. It
fought for the political, economic, social
and cultural equality of women and for a
change in gender relationships, including
in the private sphere. We refer to politi-
cal theories of the women's movement
and feminism that focus on criticism of
all power relationships that suppress and
discriminate against women and de-
mand the implementation of human
rights for women and the abolition of all
discrimination based on gender all over
the world.
In 1914, attitudes towards the war di-
vided German social democracy. The SPD
leadership supported the policy of na-
tionalist delimitation and in the end
voted in favour of war. The European
solidarity of labour in favour of peace
was abandoned. Together with many
others, Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxem-
burg resisted this devastating develop-
ment, and they paid for it with their
lives.
The 1918/19 revolution in Germany was
one of a series of revolutionary move-
ments and uprisings following World
War I both inside and outside Europe. It
was quelled with the help of the social
democratic leadership. Contrasting atti-
tudes towards the revolution in Germa-
ny, and later towards the Soviet Union as
well, deepened the division of the labour
movement. The USPD, the KPD and left
10 Where we come from, who we are10
socialist movements are as much a part
of the historical heritage of DIE LINKE as
is the history of social democracy.
After World War I and up until the sum-
mer of 1919, Germany was engaged in a
bloody civil war that claimed thousands
of lives and left a legacy of profound
bitterness. The consequences were dra-
matic. The division of the labour move-
ment facilitated the rise of the German
fascists and prevented joint resistance to
their assumption of power. In the Reich-
stag the members from the bourgeois
parties, by approving Hitler's Enabling
Act, voted for Hitler’s absolute power
and hence for the end of the Weimar
Republic.
The resistance of communists, social
democrats, trade unionists, religiously
committed people and others to the
emerging fascist barbarism was brutally
suppressed. Many were murdered by
the Nazis, others were incarcerated in
prisons or camps or became refugees.
The struggle against anti-democratic
positions, against anti-Semitism, against
racism, against the suppression of labour
organisations and against warmongering
is therefore associated for us with active
antifascism.
The barbarism and the criminal war of
the German fascists destroyed large
parts of Europe. Millions of Jewish men
and women, Sinti and Roma, persons
with disabilities and homosexuals were
systematically murdered. A war of ex-
termination was waged against the So-
viet Union. It made the greatest sacrific-
es in smashing fascism. After the war,
under the influence of the victorious
powers, bourgeois democracies with a
capitalist economic system were estab-
lished in Western Europe and states with
socialist ambitions were established in
central and eastern Europe.
Because of the unprecedented crimes of
the Germans against Jewish men and
women during the period of German
fascism, Germany has a special responsi-
bility and must confront any kind of anti-
Semitism, racism, oppression and war.
This responsibility in particular obliges us
as well to take a stand for the right of
Israel to exist. At the same time we stand
for a peaceful resolution of the Middle
East conflict within the framework of a
two-state solution and thus for the rec-
ognition under international law of an
independent and viable Palestinian state
on the basis of the resolutions of the
United Nations.
"Never again war, never again fascism",
the Buchenwald oath, was very influen-
tial in the fifties not only in East Germa-
ny but in West Germany as well. “The
extermination of Nazism with its roots is
our slogan. The building of a new world
of peace and freedom is our goal.” We
feel committed to that goal. The expe-
rience of those persecuted by German
fascism shaped the original right of asy-
lum laid down in the Basic Law of the
Federal Republic of Germany, which is
now so full of holes it is unrecognisable
and which DIE LINKE wants to restore.
Socialist reform efforts in West Germany,
as in other countries of western Europe,
were unsuccessful. The insipient Cold
War dictated political developments. The
Communist Party was weak when the
Federal Republic was established in 1949
and was the target of increasing repres-
sion. In 1956 the KPD was banned. Thus
antifascist resistance fighters also suf-
fered from such acts of repression as
renewed arrests and employment bans.
Denazification in society, on the other
Where we come from, who we are 11
hand, was largely absent. The SPD was in
the opposition during the "Adenauer
Era". From 1959 onwards, it gradually
abandoned its conceptions of a realign-
ment of the economy and society tran-
scending capitalism.
The experiences of people in the Federal
Republic included increasing social pros-
perity that all social strata shared in, as
well as parliamentary democracy. Yet at
the same time the authoritarian state
structures persisted. In the sixties, a
socio-critical extra-parliamentary opposi-
tion began to develop. It was a move-
ment for more democracy and solidarity,
against authoritarian tendencies, for
other life projects, for more self-
realisation of the individual, against edu-
cational privileges, the power of the
media and capital and the US war in
Vietnam.
Through hard bargaining, the trade un-
ions managed to gain wage increases,
shorter hours of work and improved
social welfare benefits. It was felt that
more democracy should be possible in
the economy and society. The expe-
riences of these struggles also showed,
however, that in a capitalist society de-
mocracy ends at the factory gates and at
the office and shop doors. Constant con-
frontations are necessary to ensure re-
spect for human dignity, acceptable
working conditions and the right to pri-
vacy in the enterprises as well.
A new women's movement took shape
to fight against patriarchal, women-
oppressing and discriminatory structures
in the public as in the private sphere. On
the path to a change in gender relation-
ships with the goal of a non-sexist socie-
ty, the equal status of men and women
proved to be a significant step. The expe-
riences of these struggles show, howev-
er, that in a patriarchal society equal
status ends at the front door and wom-
en’s liberation can only be achieved
through abolition of the unequal division
of labour between the sexes.
The environmental movement came into
being, advocating sustainable ways of
producing and living and opposing the
use of nuclear power. Internationalist
groups supported liberation movements
in Africa, Latin America and Asia and
fought for solidarity-based development
co-operation.
The peace movement called for disar-
mament and above all the elimination of
weapons of mass destruction. It sup-
ported and shaped the policy of détente,
which managed in the seventies and
eighties to water down and thus defuse
the dangerous confrontation of the post-
war blocs. Despite the increased wages,
shorter working hours and improved
social welfare benefits achieved through
hard bargaining by the trade unions, the
State of Emergency laws and a repressive
domestic policy in the course of the con-
flict with the RAF meant that the fulfil-
ment of the aspirations of the democra-
cy movement fell by the wayside.
In the eastern part of Germany the so-
cialism experiment shaped the life histo-
ry of the people. After 1945, many east
Germans worked for the construction of
a better social order and a peace-loving,
antifascist Germany. The nationalisation
of large scale industry, of banking and
insurance and the agrarian reform
created ownership structures intended
to ensure that economic activity was
directed towards the public weal and the
protection of working people from ex-
ploitation.
12 Where we come from, who we are
The Socialist Unity Party of Germany was
founded in April 1946. The amalgama-
tion of KPD and SPD was a lesson drawn
from the decades of division in the la-
bour movement and was justified in part
by the common resistance of members
of the SPD and the KPD to fascism. The
great majority of the members of the
KPD and the SPD were in favour of that
necessary amalgamation. But the amal-
gamation also involved pressure. Above
all social democrats who resisted it were
persecuted.
The experiences of people in the eastern
part of Germany included the elimina-
tion of joblessness and the economic
autonomy of women, the overcoming of
poverty to a large extent, a comprehen-
sive social security system, a large meas-
ure of equality of social opportunity in
the education and health systems and in
culture, and the restructuring of agricul-
ture into co-operative and state farms.
The principle that "War must never again
start from German soil" was raison
d'état. This was counterbalanced by
experience with government despotism
and limited freedoms, including the
erection of a surveillance apparatus by
the state against its own population.
Again and again, important reform initia-
tives were cut short in an authoritarian
manner. Democracy fell by the wayside,
and there was little chance of an ecolog-
ical orientation. The centralisation of
economic decision-making and the bu-
reaucratic way of planning and managing
the economy as well as the far-reaching
curtailment of plant autonomy led in the
long run to a lag in innovation and per-
formance capabilities. The attractiveness
of the GDR economic model declined.
It has become clear that an experiment
in socialism that is not democratically
shaped by the majority of the people but
is controlled by the government and
party leadership in an authoritarian
manner will inevitably fail sooner or
later. No socialism without democracy.
For that reason the members of the
SED/PDS employed this formulation at
an extraordinary Party Congress in au-
tumn 1989: "We are breaking irrevocably
with Stalinism as a system." That break
with Stalinism applies equally for DIE
LINKE. To reduce the history of the GDR,
and of the SED, to Stalinism, however, is
unhistorical and false. In the GDR too
there were different stages of a lively
socialism discussion, a rich cultural and
intellectual landscape, magnificent films,
novels, fine arts and music, and a dedica-
tion to bringing art, culture and educa-
tion to the population at large. The break
with Stalinism does not just concern the
East, it is of great importance for the
West as well. Democracy, the rule of law
and the separation of powers are indis-
pensable.
Parts of the GDR civic movement, includ-
ing reformers within the SED, took a
stand in autumn 1989 for a new peace-
ful, democratic, social and ecological
beginning and political change for a bet-
ter socialism. But that project failed in
1990. The attempt at a democratic re-
foundation of the united Germany failed
as well. The democratic renewal in the
East ended up as just an accession and a
painful social descent for many people.
On the one hand there was a gain in
democratic rights, individual freedom,
constitutional security and opening to
the outside world, on the other an eco-
nomic and social nosedive for many East
German regions and the appropriation of
East German state property by national
Where we come from, who we are 13
and international corporations with the
aid of the Treuhandanstalt privatisation
agency. Little use was made of the
achievements and experience of the East
Germans in the united Germany.
In a difficult and self-critical process the
Party of Democratic Socialism emerged
from the former SED. It asserted itself as
an independent force and grew in
strength the more it took on the con-
crete problems of the people on the
ground and fought for democratic solu-
tions. An essential component of that
engagement was the ambition to
represent the interests of the people in
East Germany politically. But its attempts
to win over people in West Germany met
with only limited success.
The left in Germany was on the defen-
sive for a long time. It was weak and
marginalised, and when it aspired to
political changes within social democracy
its scope for action was very limited.
Some on the left put their trust in the
Greens or smaller socialist and commun-
ist organisations. Many on the left who
were active in the trade unions and oth-
er social movements had no ties to any
political party. The anti-globalisation
movement that emerged in the second
half of the nineties, which was reflected
in many international mobilisations and
summit protests and at the same time
opened the way to a political critique of
capitalism, inspired and encouraged
many on the left in Germany.
The "red-green" project, welcomed with
high expectations by many, brought dis-
appointment from 1999 onwards since it
subordinated social and ecological goals
to the interests of capital and opened
the door to international war missions
for German soldiers. With breakneck
speed, SPD and BÜNDNIS 90/DIE
GRÜNEN turned their backs on principles
of social justice, ecological sustainability
and the interest of the majority of the
population in a peaceful world. The
"Hartz IV" legislation and Agenda 2010
led to the final breach of many socially-
minded and left-oriented people with
the SPD and Greens and to the devel-
opment of a new political force, the
Electoral Alternative for Labour and So-
cial Justice (WASG).
In 2007, the Linkspartei PDS and the
WASG merged in a new political party,
DIE LINKE. DIE LINKE is a part of the Eu-
ropean Left Party, founded in 2004. We
invite all people who want a different
politics and a better world, who take a
stand for freedom and equality, for
emancipation and social justice, for in-
ternational solidarity, peace and ecology,
to be a part of it.
There are alternatives to the prevailing
politics and to the capitalist system, to its
crises and injustices: a society in harmo-
ny with nature that is based on freedom
and equality, a society without exploita-
tion and oppression. We want to fight
for it together.
Crises of capitalism – crises of civilisation 14
2. Crises of capitalism – crises of civilisation
Today's capitalism has no spatial or tem-
poral boundaries; it has subjected the
whole world to its domination. The rela-
tionship with nature and almost all hu-
man relationships are becoming com-
modity relationships. Plant, animal and
human genes are being patented and
thus placed beyond public reach. Seed is
no longer freely available, and water,
from village wells to big cities, is being
privatised. Maternity is becoming a
commodity and land theft is destroying
entire communities. Food is an object of
stock market speculation, millions of
people can no longer afford adequate
and healthy food, and moreover the
fruits of the soil are ending up as fuel in
the tanks of the better-off. Multinational
corporations determine prices, deter-
mine what will be planted and what will
be mined, and dominate the retail
chains. They exert a decisive influence
on the World Trade Organization, the
World Bank and the International Mone-
tary Fund, which determine international
trade currents and define economic and
social policies world-wide. The power of
the multinational corporations must be
limited, curtailed and broken. Land and
agrarian reforms are important steps
towards ensuring food sovereignty and
the right to food. Under the conditions
of unfettered capitalism, productive
forces turn more and more rapidly and
extensively into destructive forces. At
the same time, jobs are wiped out, afflu-
ence is destroyed, and nature is ruthless-
ly exploited. Even wars are accepted if
profits can be increased and ensured in
that way, if necessary also under the
cloak of humanitarian aid.
In the centuries of its existence, capital-
ism has generated immeasurable wealth
and increased the prosperity of large
parts of the population in many coun-
tries. At the same time billions of people
are excluded from that wealth. Social
injustice has become greater, the gap
between poverty and wealth is growing
ever wider. That applies nationally, and
even more so internationally. The crises
of the capitalist market economy have
brought mass unemployment, losses of
income and welfare-state cutbacks in
their wake. True, capitalism has created
the technological preconditions for over-
coming poverty once and for all. Yet it
has cemented a world order in which a
child dies of hunger every five seconds
and more than a billion people have too
little to eat and no access to clean drink-
ing water.
This inconsistency can be found in West-
ern European post-war development as
well. The idea of a "social market econ-
omy" was a response to the shock of
crisis, fascism and war and therefore
resulted from the experiences with an
unfettered barbaric version of capitalism.
It was the response to the struggles of
strong trade unions, anti-capitalist
movements and social democratic, so-
cialist and communist political parties.
The existence of the "socialist camp" was
also a challenge that was reacted to with
welfare state concessions. Social security
systems were expanded, democratic
rights were extended, prosperity grew.
Now that the competition between sys-
tems has ceased, the balance of power
between labour and capital has shifted
to the detriment of wage and salary
earners.
Crises of capitalism – crises of civilization 15
The "social market economy" was a
compromise between wage labour and
capital that never challenged the rule of
capital. The model functioned as long as
rapid productivity gains and high rates of
growth stabilised the profits of the large
companies and strong trade union and
democratic counter-forces existed. The
compromise between wage labour and
capital eliminated neither the predatory
exploitation of nature nor the patriarchal
relationships in the public and private
spheres.
The economic crisis of the 1970s marked
the end of those "golden years" of mas-
sive growth. Capitalism returned to its
normal state, including periodic phases
of crisis and stagnation. The number of
people excluded from work increased
and solidified into structural mass unem-
ployment. The growing individuality that
many people won increasingly turned
into individualism in competition with
one another. As the jobless figures grew
and the trade unions and political coun-
ter-forces weakened, the demands of
the shareholders became more aggres-
sive. They were underpinned by the
growing power of the corporations
whose potential for extortion had risen
sharply as a result of increasing activities
in the international market. They were
able to take politics "in tow", and politics
allowed it to happen.
Patriarchal oppression and division
of labour
At the beginning of the 21st century we
find a society in which a few enrich
themselves at the cost of many, in which
a few decide over the life and time of the
many, in which the pursuit of profit has
embraced all areas of life and in which
women still live under the old relation-
ships of oppression. The foundations of
these relationships, the foundations of
capitalism and patriarchy start with the
history of labour and its distribution.
The increasing division of labour made it
possible to produce more effectively and
in greater quantity, and inversely the
increased productivity made further
division of labour possible. A decisive
form of division of labour was the sepa-
ration of "women's work" and "men's
work". Men became engaged in produc-
tion activities in which technical progress
was expedited and which increasingly
took place outside the home, in separate
production plants, generating income,
while women were assigned the work
around the house and the responsibility
for looking after and caring for all family
members, i.e. non-income work. Even
today, society attaches greater value to
traditional "men's work", while work
that is traditionally viewed as "women's
work" is held in less esteem and is either
unpaid or less well paid.
As productivity increased it became
possible to have an ever-growing num-
ber of people provided for by the com-
munity. At the same time, a part suc-
ceeded in making use of the work of
others, disposing of their time, dictating
what they would do and thus to estab-
lish class relationships and relationships
of domination. This hierarchic division of
labour became the prerequisite for the
oppression of women. The division of
labour in the family made women and
children the property of the man, who
disposed of the labour power and the
body of the woman. Even today, proper-
ty and class relationships are closely
intertwined with the patriarchal family.
16 Crises of capitalism – crises of civilisation
Patriarchal oppression existed long be-
fore capitalist production was intro-
duced. Yet in capitalism as well the op-
pression of women, the imbalance of
power between the genders, is firmly
anchored in the economic, social and
cultural structures and is used to pre-
serve the existing conditions. By displac-
ing or taking over traditional production
methods and areas not previously orga-
nised along capitalist lines, capitalism
can successfully pervade all areas of life
and spread to all corners of the earth. In
the industrialisation phase, the labour
power of women was exploited so mas-
sively that in the end even the reproduc-
tion of the next generation was endan-
gered. In the following phase, women
were made responsible for restoring the
family breadwinner's labour power and
for bringing up the next generation,
while men were assigned to the field of
gainful employment, in exchange for an
income that was intended to feed the
whole family but was often inadequate
for that purpose.
Even today women do the bulk of the
housework and family work. The West
German post-war order was characte-
rised by the ideal of the stay-at-home
housewife, and even today that type of
marriage enjoys tax privileges. If women
were in gainful employment at all it was
only to supplement the man's income,
and they remained financially dependent
on the "breadwinner". In the GDR,
women were integrated into gainful
work to a large extent, often in tradition-
al "male occupations", with equal pay for
equal work. On the one hand there was
a substantially better infrastructure and
substantially better compatibility of vo-
cation and family. On the other hand,
however, the distribution of home and
family work was not fundamentally dif-
ferent. Many women had leadership
functions, but they were not adequately
represented in the top leadership bo-
dies. Today there are still a considerably
larger number of women in precarious
employment, at lower wages and in
part-time jobs.
The dominant breadwinner- centered
model of the work and family relation-
ship was based on the naturalness of
heterosexuality. Lesbians, gays, trans-
and inter-sexual and transgender people
still have to contend with constant dis-
crimination in employment, they usually
have to hide their sexuality and their
form of relationships in order to gain
career advancement opportunities.
Gender relationships are production
relationships
Capitalist production takes place as
commodity production and is predicated
on the constant reproduction of the
labour it employs. In the production of
goods and foodstuffs the productive
forces develop rapidly, a surplus is gen-
erated and thus the foundation is laid for
human and social development. The old
gender setup continues to function in
the organisation of reproduction work. It
is mostly women that work in the fields
of work on people, education, health,
nutrition and nursing, unpaid and un-
derpaid and often underappreciated. In
that role women are sidelined to social
insignificance and are without public
influence.
Today the gender-specific separation of
social areas of work and their hierarchic
arrangement still results in the social
oppression of women. In the occupa-
tional sectors employing mostly women
the wage levels are generally lower.
Crises of capitalism – crises of civilization 17
Companies profit from the oppression of
women by employing women at low
wages. In addition to their gainful em-
ployment, women work a huge number
of unpaid hours a year in the families, to
a much greater extent than men.
It is easily overlooked that the paid and
unpaid jobs of looking after children and
adults in need of care as well as house-
work are of fundamental importance for
the functioning of capitalist society and
for social well-being. DIE LINKE sees itself
as a socialist and feminist political party
that wants to eliminate patriarchal and
capitalist relationships.
Gender relationships in a state of
upheaval
All this time, women have been fighting
for their rights: suffragettes fought for
and won women's right to vote. The
proletarian women's movement took a
stand for the rights of working women
and the preservation of peace. Like the
bourgeois women's movement, it fought
for the equal status of women and men.
After 1968, the new women's movement
fought for comprehensive social emanci-
pation. As a result, the women's move-
ment can be seen as one of the most
successful of the social movements.
Women have broken down the bounda-
ries of the home as women's alleged
place; they have won the right to educa-
tion, to independent vocational devel-
opment and to financial independence
from men. Women can be freer in their
sexuality and engage in family planning
more independently. Today's girls have a
much better education than their
grandmothers and great-grandmothers
had; they can study, have a career, learn
"male occupations".
The majority of women are gainfully
employed in the meantime, but a large
proportion of them have only part-time
jobs that do not pay enough for them to
make ends meet and that they often
have to take against their will. In Germa-
ny, women earn more than 20% less
than men. They bear the double burden
of employment and family almost on
their own. If they want to be successful
they have to adapt to a male-dominated
world. Women are still clearly underre-
presented in leadership positions in
business, science and politics. Tax law
and social legislation are still tailored to
the traditional one-earner family. The
patriarchy still frames the symbolic order
in language, culture, physicality and poli-
tics. Women and girls, especially those
with disabilities, still fall victim to rape
and domestic violence. Women with
disabilities still face multiple discrimina-
tion.
The traditional bourgeois nuclear family
with the gainfully employed husband
and the dependent wife is losing its sig-
nificance and is increasingly being called
into question, since the development of
new methods of production has changed
the way people live their lives. The old
Fordist capitalist gender contract be-
tween the male provider and the
housewife has been revoked. That has
brought women many new freedoms
and often financial independence of
their husbands. But neo-liberal deregula-
tion burdens them with demands for
flexibility, deprivation of freedom
through precarious and unsteady work, a
twofold burden and overexertion. Al-
though more and more women are join-
ing the work force in the industrialised
countries, the proportion of household
and family work assumed by men lags
far behind that assumed by women.
18 Crises of capitalism – crises of civilisation
Often women with poor employment
prospects or migrant women are hired
for such jobs at low pay and under pre-
carious conditions. This leads to new
inequalities among women. We are far
removed from genuine emancipation.
In this situation, all the demands for
equal status, for alternative family mod-
els, for compatibility of employment and
family are not enough. The multiple
burden must not be individualised. The
difficulty in reconciling employment and
family has social and economic causes.
Family is where people assume respon-
sibility for one another, whether as a
married or unmarried couple, as a multi-
generational household or in other
forms of community. Family is where
people, whatever their sexual orienta-
tion, are there for one another.
Germany – a class society
Germany is a class society. The vast ma-
jority of goods and services are pro-
duced in private enterprises with the
goal of reaping the greatest possible
profits. The vast majority of working
people are wage earners or salaried
employees. They receive only a part of
the values they create as wages or sala-
ries; the surplus is appropriated by the
shareholders. The latter decide on how it
will be used, on what to invest it in and
consequently on economic development
and the working and living conditions of
the employees. The key factor in eco-
nomic and social development, as well
as government activity and politics, is
the interests of capital. People's pros-
pects for life and education depend in
large measure on their class position and
social origin.
The structure of the working class has
changed substantially in the course of its
development. The proportion of people
working in manufacturing and the large
enterprises is sinking and more and
more people are working in the service
industries and in small and medium-
sized enterprises. The activities and job
content have changed as well. The pro-
portion of manual and physical work has
fallen, while the proportion of mental,
supervisory and planning activities has
increased. The differences between
wage and salary earners have become
less pronounced. To some extent there is
also more scope for working on one's
own responsibility.
The working conditions have changed as
well. The proportion of regular full-time
jobs is declining. More and more jobs are
being filled only on a temporary basis,
are being converted to temporary agen-
cy jobs or split up into several mini-jobs.
The proportion of employees who are
protected by collective agreements has
fallen. The number of persons employed
in the low-wage sector is expanding.
Precarious employment is increasing. On
the other hand, more self-employment
categories have come into being. Often,
however, this is not real and voluntary
self-employment but forced and feigned
self-employment with low payment and
financial insecurity.
The jobless are in the worst position,
especially if they have been out of work
for an extended period and have little
chance of getting a good job. They are
increasingly vulnerable to poverty, re-
pression and exclusion.
Even though the working conditions and
activities are highly differentiated, the
common class position still follows from
Crises of capitalism – crises of civilization 19
the general character of wage labour
with its dependence on capital. Those
dependent on wages have a common
interest in improving their incomes,
working conditions and social security
through company, salary and legal ar-
rangements and thus limiting capitalist
domination and exploitation.
On top of this women are subject of
oppression through patriarchal struc-
tures. The oppression of women and the
imbalance of power between the sexes
are firmly anchored in the economy and
society. Gender relationships are a part
of the relations of production and find
expression in particular in the organisa-
tion of reproduction. Women are bur-
dened with the main responsibility for
bringing up children and caring for rela-
tives.
The common class position does not
necessarily imply common representa-
tion of interest or indeed class con-
sciousness. The latter is hindered in par-
ticular by the diversity of working and
living conditions. Differences in income,
vocational status, qualifications and
family origin and different migration
backgrounds characterise the different
milieus of the wage earners. Together
with philosophical, religious and political
traditions, all that leads to different val-
ue orientations and political preferences
within the working class. Competition
among wage earners is heightened un-
der the pressure of mass unemploy-
ment. A common consciousness and a
common representation of interests are
most likely to emerge in social conflicts.
On the other hand, however, the class of
capitalists is by no means homogeneous.
Capital as ownership and capital as func-
tion are often separate, so that one has
to differentiate between shareholders
and their agents, the management. This
difference in position can sometimes be
matched by differences in interests.
In addition to the big capital holders and
finance magnates, however, there are
many small and medium-sized entrepre-
neurs and freelancers who do not live
exclusively from the exploitation of the
work of others. To some extent they
suffer themselves from the overwhelm-
ing power of big capital. They therefore
have different interests and definitely
have some things in common with the
wage-earning majority of the popula-
tion.
The neo-liberal turnaround – redi-
stribution and speculation
The neo-liberal turnaround since the 70s
served above all the purpose of driving
up the rate of profit for the big corpora-
tions. The key means to that end were
the deregulation of the labour markets
and the political weakening of the trade
unions in order to lower the wage level.
Democratic and social rights and benefits
were cut back and taxes on profits and
capital were reduced in order to provide
relief for the enterprises and heighten
their flexibility. Extensive privatisation of
previously public enterprises and servic-
es as well as the social safeguards
opened up additional profitable spheres
of investment to capital. The ruling class
is trying to usurp the social wealth that
has been swelled by technological revo-
lutions to augment their personal wealth
and their power.
The neo-liberal orientation was initiated
with the collapse of the post-war mone-
tary system and the abandonment of
fixed exchange rates at the beginning of
20 Crises of capitalism – crises of civilisation
the 70s. First the currency markets, then
the global financial markets were libera-
lised more and more. The liberalisation
of the financial markets was expedited in
large part through the EU. The EU trea-
ties – from the Maastricht treaty to the
Treaty of Lisbon – and the EU guidelines
on liberalisation in the field of the provi-
sion of public services of general interest
cemented the neo-liberal policy of priva-
tisation, deregulation and greater flex-
ibility, partly through orientation to-
wards an "open market economy with
freedom of competition". The develop-
ing countries were forced to open up
their national economies, dismantle
restrictions on the movement of capital,
limit social spending and privatise public
goods. Many were obliged to dismantle
protective mechanisms for their own
agriculture and to develop agrarian ex-
port production, resulting in the loss of
their food sovereignty. The triumphal
march of neo-liberalism reached its peak
with the transition to capitalist market
economies in central, eastern and south-
eastern Europe and in the successor
states of the Soviet Union.
As a result, the nation states relin-
quished their power to influence impor-
tant prices in the world markets, such as
exchange and interest rates, leaving it to
the speculation of banks and currency
traders. Global capital circulation now
amounts to many times the gross world
product. Sudden changes in the direction
of capital flow can plunge whole national
economies into the abyss. The deregula-
tion of the financial markets did not just
produce an additional instability factor,
however. The deregulated financial mar-
kets at the same time opened up a wide
range of speculative profit-making,
which has become the focus of growing
segments of economic activity in global
capitalism.
The European Union, the formation of
which once contributed to ensuring
peace between the EU member states,
has also increasingly developed into a
driving force of neo-liberal restructuring.
Cities, regions and countries are compet-
ing in a common internal market with
the lowest possible tax rates and lax
environmental requirements, low wages
and low social contributions. The compe-
tition between locations leads to a
dumping race with devastating effects on
public sector revenues, among other
things. This made the reduction of the
share of GDP attributable to public ex-
penditure, extensive privatisation and
the gradual destruction of the social
systems in the member states inevitable.
Entire national economies in the EU are
threatened with collapse. The German
social and wage dumping policy in par-
ticular, but also the plundering of the
national economies by the banks, bear
the responsibility for that situation.
Financial bubble and social division
As a consequence of neo-liberal capital-
ism a gigantic financial bubble consisting
of financial assets and debt has swelled
above a real economy with poor growth
rates. Rising profits and the redistribu-
tion of income in favour of stockholders
and high-income people have led to a
huge surplus of capital looking for in-
vestment opportunities worldwide. This
is further intensified by world-wide pri-
vatisation tendencies in old-age provi-
sions and other social security systems.
At the same time the uncoupling of wag-
es from the development of productivity
and sinking social revenues exacerbate
Crises of capitalism – crises of civilization 21
the problem of industrial overcapacity
and discourage real investments. An
economy of dispossession makes majori-
ties poorer in order to make the rich
richer. We can see we live in a class so-
ciety by the increasingly unequal distri-
bution of income and assets.
Three decades of economic growth have
passed many people by, not just in Ger-
many but world-wide. It is true that pos-
sibilities of gainful employment and thus
of emancipation have opened up in the
developing countries for millions of
people and especially for women. At the
same time, however, they have been
subjected to new capitalist constraints.
Social cohesion and natural biospheres
have been destroyed. Living conditions
have worsened substantially for em-
ployees with low incomes, the unem-
ployed, the small-scale self-employed
and creative people in the industrialised
countries. Many no longer know how
they can finance their daily lives and
those of their children. Many young
people are excluded from comprehen-
sive education and training. Informal and
precarious work, underpaid work and
work without social security have now
become normal. More personal respon-
sibility and creativity in their work has
become associated for many under this
pressure with increased helplessness
and adaptation to relationships of sub-
mission and domination; the lines be-
tween work and leisure have become
blurred, and personal and social living
conditions in general have increasingly
become subject to the selfish pursuit of
profit and maximum yield expectations.
Neo-liberal policy has not kept one of its
promises. Instead of more performance
equity it stands for ruthless redistribu-
tion at the expense of working people
and for the benefit of non-performing
revenues from capital. More personal
responsibility in place of the welfare
state has led to more exclusion and po-
verty. Not more competition, but an
unprecedented concentration of eco-
nomic power has been the consequence.
To increase demand despite the attacks
on mass revenues, the framework condi-
tions were established in the USA as well
as in other countries for excessive con-
sumer debt. The American model of
making up for falling wages with rising
debts was at the same time the precon-
dition for the gigantic export surpluses of
other countries, such as the Federal
Republic of Germany. The rising debt of
the US government to finance arma-
ments and wars also helped inflate the
financial bubble.
In the big business corporations them-
selves, debt-funded takeovers and share
buyback programmes to increase short-
term returns have increasingly displaced
real investments in new equipment and
technologies as well as innovative re-
search and development. Big investors
and financial investors coerce enterpris-
es in whose shares they often invest only
for a short time into making ruthless
streamlining drives, divesting themselves
of less profitable parts of the firms, and
slashing wages and labour and social
standards. Even highly productive firms
with respectable profit margins and low
labour cost quotients are thus forced to
lay off thousands of employees or even
to close down plants.
The global economic crisis at the
beginning of the 21st century
The profound economic crisis that began
in 2008 is the crisis of an economic order
22 Crises of capitalism – crises of civilisation
that produces solely for profit and only
produces for need when it asserts itself
as highly solvent demand. An economic
depression, a structural crisis and the
crisis of the international financial mar-
kets culminated in the most severe world
crisis of capitalism since 1929. With that
crisis, a global model that had characte-
rised and sustained the development of
capitalism in the preceding three dec-
ades reached its limits.
The Federal Republic of Germany was no
exception. Economic development in this
country was geared to and made depen-
dent on increasing exports in a most
extreme fashion. At the same time do-
mestic demand was stifled so that im-
ports were curbed. The export surpluses
correspond to enormous capital exports
by German firms. This relates not only to
productive direct investments but to a
great extent to credits or the purchase of
bonds and securities, including masses
of "toxic" papers that are now virtually
worthless. German firms and rich finan-
cial asset holders thus made a substan-
tial contribution to financing the US debt
and hence to the development of the
world-wide financial crisis.
Politically promoted pressure on wages
has fostered export growth and wea-
kened domestic demand. Cutbacks in
public welfare spending have acted in
the same direction, worsening distribu-
tion at the expense of wage and salary
earners and lastingly weakening domes-
tic demand. Germany now has one of
the lowest rates of employment in the
public sector of all members of the Eu-
ropean Union. The result has been weak
and divided economic development. It
benefits only the export sector and is in
the interest of the corporations and
finance capital and is taking place at the
expense of the employees and those
producing for the domestic market, that
is, the vast majority of the small and
medium-sized enterprises. Feeble eco-
nomic development and vanishing tax
revenues owing to tax cuts for compa-
nies and the rich have accentuated the
financial crisis of public sector budgets.
The crisis in turn serves as grounds for
further spending cuts, personnel reduc-
tions and privatisation of the remaining
public goods and enterprises.
Germany’s aggressive export orientation
causes severe economic harm in other
countries. The flip side of German export
surpluses is necessarily deficits and
higher unemployment rates in other
countries. Germany must discontinue
export incentives (such as the instru-
ment of Hermes export credit guaran-
tees, a policy of wage dumping in our
country, etc.) and strive for an equal
balance of trade instead.
These developments show that capital-
ism is not just socially unjust. It also un-
dermines the productive foundations of
the economy. It leads to systematic mis-
management of the economy, the de-
velopment of gigantic overcapacities and
elsewhere to grave undersupply as well
as to tremendous ecological damage. It
results in ominous global imbalances and
the destruction of production and prod-
uctivity, jobs and prosperity, innovation
and creativity. It bankrupts the middle
class and causes an extreme concentra-
tion of income and wealth in the hands
of the rich, inflating the financial markets
and stifling demand in the goods mar-
kets.
Through deregulation, liberalisation and
privatisation, neo-liberal policy planted
the roots of the present crisis, which
Crises of capitalism – crises of civilization 23
may grow into a catastrophe if no politi-
cal counter-action is taken. The subordi-
nation of the economy and society to
capital investment threatens the exis-
tence of human civilisation. Financial
market capitalism has accumulated the
elements of a fourfold crisis. They con-
cern the questions of power and proper-
ty, the relationship between nature and
society, the mode of production and way
of life, and questions of security and
development.
Crisis of social cohesion
More and more people are being driven
into extreme insecurity and growing
poverty. Fear of falling down the social
ladder is a feature of the life of large
parts of the population – and to an in-
creasing extent highly skilled specialists
are among them. The unconstrained
pursuit of profit and growing material
inequality are corroding society from
within. Competition, distrust, social ex-
clusion and insecurity are growing; co-
operation, confidence in social structures
and readiness to assume social responsi-
bility are disappearing. Inter-
generational solidarity also suffers from
this. For our society builds on what the
previous generations have created and
its future depends on the education,
skills, work and sense of responsibility of
the coming generation. The education
system contributes to the social and
cultural division in society. Racism and
fascist tendencies, anti-Semitism and
Islamophobia are increasing. Migrant
women and girls and women driven into
illegality, whether with or without dis-
abilities, are exposed even more fre-
quently to violence. Migrants are threat-
ened with deportation in violation of
their human rights. Repressive elements
in domestic policy are being expanded.
Eroding democracy
The possibility of exerting democratic
influence and of co-determination re-
cedes as the power of the corporations
and of finance capital grows and privati-
sation and liberalisation of the economy
reduce the scope for political and public
action. The profits of globalisation are
being privatised, the losses socialised. At
the same time the repressive surveil-
lance state is being extended. The rights
of citizens are being undermined, the
ability to assert them depends more and
more on personal income. Those who
have too little and at the same time are
excluded from democratic participation
often react with political disaffection.
The result is a dangerous vicious circle of
economic power undermining the dem-
ocratic system and the helpless reaction
to that undermining.
A crisis of democracy and of social regu-
lation sets in. The global ruling elites do
not make their decisions in the interest
of the great majority of the world popu-
lation. Their interests run counter to
social, ecological and peaceful global
development. The states and the world
community remain the hostages of the
capital owners and speculators. Compe-
tition between locations and the struggle
for scarce resources surrender whole
continents and large parts of the working
population to a ruthless undercutting
race, social dismantling and plunder. The
democracy that was fought for and won,
the individual freedoms that were con-
quered and the advances of the welfare
state are being undermined by the he-
gemony of a global oligarchy.
But democracy is being eroded at the
institutional level as well. New possibili-
ties of influencing political affairs
24 Crises of capitalism – crises of civilisation
through the potential of the Internet go
unused. The exertion of more direct
democratic influence is blockaded. The
social division of society leads to a divi-
sion in democratic society: a large part of
the population remains excluded from
exerting democratic influence because it
lacks the possibilities of participation.
With little or no income, one’s scope for
political engagement is narrowed and to
some extent made impossible. At the
same time the repressive surveillance
state is being expanded. As technology
improves, new ideas are developed to
keep watch on citizens and make it easi-
er to impose punishment. The protection
of personal data is suppressed, as are
freedom of information, freedom of the
press and the right to demonstrate. The
state and business are constantly initiat-
ing new court cases to restrict and regu-
late the Internet and the possibilities it
offers for horizontal communication and
opinion-forming.
The impression that politicians do not
concern themselves with the interests of
disadvantaged residents, as well as the
exclusion of possibilities of co-decision,
lead to frustration with politicians and
political parties. A crisis of democracy
and the social order develops.
The centrality of the ecological
question
Capitalism does not measure up to social
needs, economic challenges and ecologi-
cal demands. Its decisions are oriented
to ever shorter time spans. Exchange
rate fluctuations, changes in the prices of
stocks and bonds, interest rate differ-
ences and changes in the prices of real
estate and resources are objects of
speculation. Decisions for the longer
term and taking long cycles of nature
into consideration are incompatible with
short-term profit calculations. Growth in
the past 250 years has been based pri-
marily on the use of fossil energy
sources, first coal and then since the
beginning of the 20th century oil and
natural gas. Oil, coal and natural gas
reserves, however, are limited. Peak oil
extraction will be reached in the fore-
seeable future. After that the supply of
fossil fuels will decline, but since fossil
fuel requirements in the industrialised
and threshold countries are still im-
mense the demand will increase. Under
capitalist conditions, this will drive up
the prices of fossil fuels and with them
the profits of the energy corporations,
further enhancing their social and politi-
cal power in the process.
A crisis in the natural and social founda-
tions of life, a crisis of reproduction has
been reached. Speculation with food and
farmland is destroying local agricultural
structures and exacerbating hunger and
under-nourishment. Today's societies are
living off their capital. The capitalist
mode of production has led to industrial
mass production in particular in the
treatment of animals, with unethical
forms of husbandry and over-fishing of
the world’s oceans. The imminent cli-
mate catastrophe, the rapid exhaustion
of many natural raw materials and the
accelerated destruction of biological
diversity on the one hand and the divi-
sion of society into victims and benefi-
ciaries of neo-liberal globalisation, into
escalating luxury goods consumption
and increasing hunger on the other are
two sides of the same coin. The social
and the ecological questions can only be
resolved together.
The great challenge of the beginning of
the 21st century is climate change.
Crises of capitalism – crises of civilization 25
Drought areas are spreading, glaciers are
melting, river levels are sinking, the
oceans are rising, stretches of land are
being flooded. People are being forced
to migrate. In order to limit the rise in
temperatures on the earth the consump-
tion of fossil fuels must be radically re-
stricted. Technical solutions such as car-
bon capture and storage (CCS) involve
incalculable risks and side effects and
only delay the necessary restructuring.
We demand the prohibition of carbon
capture and storage. The experience
with the EU's emission trading so far has
also been disappointing. There is reason
to fear that the traded certificates will be
used for speculative purposes as securi-
ties, just like other securitised papers.
The acquisition of emission rights by
those responsible for greenhouses gases
in the industrialised countries is a cynical
trade-off of environmental pollution for
poverty. It is becoming ever clearer:
sustainable ecological development is
incompatible with the logic of capitalist
growth. The ecological issue is at the
same time an economic, social and cul-
tural issue – a system issue.
Imperialism and war
The capitalist states make sure that their
companies have access to resources
world-wide, that they can invest and
exploit their capital world-wide and that
they can sell their products in all mar-
kets. To that end they make use of their
economic and military hegemony and
their dominant role in the international
trade and financial institutions. Today's
imperialism relies above all on economic
dependence and debt.
Imperialistic wars grow out of struggles
for geopolitical power, economic, politi-
cal and cultural domination, profits,
markets and raw materials. Wars also
spring from poverty and oppression,
climate change, and shortages and un-
just appropriation of natural resources.
They lead to further military, ethnic and
religious conflicts, the collapse of states,
fundamentalism and terrorism, and envi-
ronmental degradation. In defiance of
the United Nations Charter, violence and
wars are also used as instruments of
policy. This is often done under the pre-
text of combating terrorism or "rogue
states". Military interventions under the
pretext of protecting human rights are
especially perfidious. In the 90s, after
the end of the confrontation of systems,
war returned to Europe as well. Germa-
ny deployed soldiers abroad again for
the first time since the overthrow of
fascism and was directly or indirectly
involved in numerous illegal wars. It was
a driving force in the war against Yugos-
lavia, directly and indirectly supports the
US war in Iraq, and is taking part in the
war in Afghanistan.
But fundamental changes are taking
place in the world. The hegemony of the
USA as the sole remaining super-power
after the bipolar confrontation is being
called into question. A multi-polar world
is emerging. The EU as well is making
increasingly aggressive attempts to
strengthen its position in the world-wide
contest for power, influence and natural
resources. Wars, including pre-emptive
first-strike wars, are again considered
valid policy instruments by leading forces
in the USA, NATO and the EU. The global
network of foreign military bases has
been expanded. The pretext of protect-
ing human rights is used to legitimise
wars.
Since the formation of the European
Community, conflicts within the Com-
26 Crises of capitalism – crises of civilisation
munity have no longer been settled by
military means. Now, however, the Euro-
pean Union and the states of the EU are
waging wars outside their territory with
increasing frequency. The war to destroy
Yugoslavia was followed by participation
of the majority of the EU member states
in acts of aggression against Afghanistan
and Iraq . The growing importance of
military means for the EU is reflected in
the Treaty of Lisbon. It not only contains
a commitment to arms build-up but also
facilitates the participation of EU combat
forces in international conflicts. We, on
the other hand, stand for a policy
oriented towards peace, disarmament
and international solidarity-based coop-
eration.
Democratic socialism in the 21st century 27
3. Democratic socialism in the 21st century
Capitalism is not the end of history but a
stage in human development which,
although it fulfilled many of the hopes of
the Enlightenment and resulted in an
enormous growth in human productive
capacity, also brought mass impoverish-
ment, genocide and unimaginable wars
over humanity. Today, now that capital-
ism has become a global system, its
plundering of man and nature is leading
to a global crisis that poses a threat to
human civilisation. We are convinced
that the diverse crisis scenarios can only
be countered by abolishing the capitalist
system of exploitation, changing the
mode of production and way of life,
practicing global solidarity, overcoming
the antagonism between the sexes, de-
mocratising all areas of life and changing
the relationship between man and na-
ture. Capitalism can be overcome if ma-
jorities can be won for a departure to-
wards a new way of working and living.
The first great attempt in the 20th cen-
tury to build a non-capitalist system
failed because of the lack of democracy,
over-centralisation, and economic ineffi-
ciency. Crimes were committed in per-
version of the socialist idea.
This obliges us to redefine our under-
standing of socialism. We want a demo-
cratic socialism that is adequate to the
social and global challenges and oppor-
tunities of the 21st century.
For Rosa Luxemburg, equality without
freedom ended in oppression and free-
dom without equality led to exploitation.
We are striving for a socialist society in
which everyone can determine their
own life in freedom, cooperating with
others in a society based on solidarity.
The most important prerequisites for
that are the overcoming of the domin-
ance of capitalist ownership in the econ-
omy and a welfare state governed by the
rule of law. All people must be able to
have a share in the wealth. Socially equal
access to the conditions for a life in free-
dom for every person and the democra-
tisation of all areas of life belong togeth-
er. Socialism and democracy are insepar-
able. We want a different kind of eco-
nomic development and scientific and
technological progress so as to conserve
the natural environment and leave an
improved world to the coming genera-
tions. We want the state ruled by law
and the welfare state to form a unit and
we champion a world-wide order charac-
terised by peace, solidarity and justice.
In that way a good life can be organised
and a social democracy can be estab-
lished and expanded.
We are not alone in our struggle for
social alternatives going beyond the
capitalist mode of production and way of
life. The most diverse forces and differ-
ent movements are convinced that
another world is possible: a world with-
out war, exploitation, foreign tutelage
and ecological devastation. They are
looking for new paths to non-capitalist
development and are demanding, as in
Latin America, not just our solidarity but
our willingness to learn as well. In the
countries of the global south, new forms
of property and cooperation are devel-
oping, making an important statement
against neo-liberalism. DIE LINKE is
watching with great interest the model
28 Democratic socialism in the 21st century
of the ALBA countries, which have
agreed on solidarity-based economic
cooperation. The complexity of the prob-
lems and starting conditions prohibit any
claim to a leading role for any country,
this or that movement or an individual
political party.
It is possible today to ensure a life in
social security and dignity for every per-
son. Poverty and misery can be over-
come everywhere in the world.
We aspire to a new, just distribution of
gainful employment and other socially
necessary work. We want all people to
be involved in the socially organised
labour process, to have an equal role in
shaping social development and culture
and to be able to influence democratic
decision-making processes. To that end
we campaign for a public education sys-
tem that excludes no one but provides
everyone with the best possible support
and puts them in a position to shape
their own careers and lives independent-
ly. Education must not be limited to
enabling people to adapt to the existing
structures. The aim of education must be
to put people in a position to change the
world, to develop and implement social,
ecological and democratic reforms. We
want to embed solidarity and common,
research-oriented learning in education
as guidelines and thus lay the ground-
work for common social changes. We
want to overcome class society. The new
and better order that democratic social-
ism aspires to is a society freed of class
barriers.
DIE LINKE is guided by the aspiration that
all people, irrespective of what region of
the earth they live in, will be able to live
a self-determined life in dignity and soli-
darity. That aspiration is based on an
image of the human being that proceeds
from the universality and indivisibility of
human rights and only requires one justi-
fication: because I am human. It takes up
Marx' vision from the Communist Mani-
festo: "In place of the old bourgeois so-
ciety, with its classes and class antagon-
isms, we shall have an association, in
which the free development of each is
the condition for the free development
of all." That vision presupposes the ab-
olition of wars, cessation of the destruc-
tion of our environment and the natural
bases of life as well as the elimination of
exploitation and oppression, discrimina-
tion, hunger, poverty and underdeve-
lopment. It will only be attainable
through comprehensive democratisation
of all spheres of life. It is utopia and real-
ism at the same time. Our goal for dem-
ocratic socialism in the 21
st
century is a
society without rulers in which all people
can live a decent life.
Democratic socialism is based on the
values of freedom, equality and solidari-
ty, on peace and socio-ecological sustai-
nability. These also determine the means
to achieve a democratic and socialist
society. Democratic socialism promotes
the development of society's civilising
development potentials and aspires to
radical changes in the prevailing proper-
ty, control and power relationships. It
combines protest and resistance, action
for social improvements and left reform
projects under the prevailing conditions
and going beyond the limits of capitalism
into a great process of social reconstruc-
tion that will define the 21st century. It
builds on economic developments that
already extend beyond capitalist forms
of production.
DIE LINKE fights for the democratic so-
cialism of the 21st century within a
Democratic socialism in the 21st century 29
great, transforming process of social
restructuring. That process will be cha-
racterised by many small and large steps
towards reform, by ruptures and
upheavals of revolutionary profundity.
Democratic socialism is always a demo-
cratic movement for the liberation of
people from all situations of oppression
as well.
Property issues and economic de-
mocracy
One decisive question of social change is
and will continue to be the property
question. Economic power means politi-
cal power as well. As long as the deci-
sions made by large corporations are
oriented towards desired returns rather
than the public good, politics will be
subject to blackmail and democracy will
be undermined. To make a social, peace-
ful, environmentally friendly, democratic
society possible, the economic power of
those who profit from poverty, exploita-
tion, degradation of the natural envi-
ronment, armaments and war must be
reduced and overcome.
DIE LINKE is fighting for a change in
ownership structures. We want a radical
renewal of democracy that extends to
economic decision-making as well and
subjects all forms of ownership to eman-
cipatory, social and ecological standards.
Without democracy in the economy, the
public interest cannot assert itself over
profit interests. Democracy remains
imperfect. For that reason we see eco-
nomic democracy as a cornerstone of
democratic socialism. Achieving more
democracy in the economy has always
been of paramount importance to the
labour movement. We see ourselves as a
part of that tradition.
Under today's conditions, the achieve-
ment of economic democracy has an
international, a European, a national and
a regional dimension. Given the process
of economic internationalisation, eco-
nomic democracy can no longer be
achieved within the nation-state context
alone. International rules are essential to
limit and reduce economic power.
It is also a matter of making knowledge
and information accessible to the public.
It is unacceptable that the results of
publicly funded research are not access-
ible to the public. Public access to know-
ledge and information is essential for a
peaceful, solidarity-based and democrat-
ic society and must not be the preserve
of individuals. We want to subject the
economy to the standards of the public
weal so that its action will be socially and
environmentally acceptable.
Democratic control of economic devel-
opment presupposes that the financial
markets be restrained and returned to
their basic function of serving the real
economy. An economy that serves
people and not profits has to fulfil the
following functions above all: first, it has
to satisfy the needs of the people and
ensure a life in prosperity and social
security for everyone; second, be envi-
ronmentally sustainable, third, react
innovatively to new challenges, and
fourth, be economical with social re-
sources. It also has to be organised in
such a way that all people involved in the
economy in one way or the other can
develop their skills freely and can con-
tinue their education in the course of
their activities. In an economic order
based on solidarity as aspired to by DIE
LINKE, there is room for various forms of
ownership: state and municipal, public,
private and co-operative forms of own-
30 Democratic socialism in the 21st century
ership. The employees, the consumers,
the representatives of general interests
have to have a strong democratic voice
and participate directly in economic
decision-making.
Everything that people need and want
should be divided up fairly, from both a
global and a gender perspective. Every-
one must be able to live from their in-
come. Everyone has to be in a position to
take part in all spheres of society – gain-
ful employment, family, nursing and
household work, social activity and poli-
cymaking. All work, paid or unpaid, has
to be appreciated.
Equitable distribution of social wealth
and all necessary kinds of work and par-
ticipation of everyone in decision-
making concerning the future of the
society are among the preconditions for
a democratic and socialist society. We
develop our reform proposals with an
eye to a more just society. We want a life
worth living in the here and now.
The issue of working hours is a key issue
in the confrontation between capital and
labour. As an urgently necessary step, we
demand a drastic reduction in working
hours and at the same time the right to
work and equal pay for equal work. That
is a prerequisite if the work of looking
after and caring for people, for life and
its natural prerequisites is to be retrieved
from the corner of neglect and unpaid
assignment to women and these activi-
ties are to be socially organised and sha-
red among all members of the society.
Public and workforce ownership
We want more public ownership in vari-
ous forms. We want to transform struc-
ture-defining large economic enterprises
into democratic public forms of owner-
ship and overcome capitalist ownership.
Which spheres, enterprises and plants
should be subject to democratic sociali-
sation and in which public or collective
forms of ownership they should be con-
verted (state or municipal ownership, co-
operatives, workforce ownership) must
be decided in a democratic process. DIE
LINKE works to create suitable legal
forms to facilitate and promote the joint
takeover of enterprises by the em-
ployees. Due to bitter historical expe-
rience, all-embracing state ownership is
not our goal.
Employees must be given real influence
over company decisions. We advocate
that workforces collectively share in the
business assets they create without sa-
crificing wages. On important issues, as
when mass layoffs or plant closures are
planned, the workforce must have a
vote. Property relations are more than
just ownership relations. It is not enough
just to change the title of ownership. In
the end it is a matter of disposal of and
access to social wealth.
Services of general interest, the social
infrastructure, the financial institutions
and the energy industry belong in public
hands and must be controlled democrat-
ically. They must not be managed ac-
cording to the profit calculations of pri-
vate enterprises. In particular, the at-
tacks by European institutions on the
systems of property ownership in the
Member States and the massive EU libe-
ralisation pressure in the area of public
services of general interest have to be
stopped. Instead the EU must give the
highest priority to the protection of pub-
lic goods and provide access to all the
benefits of public services of general
interest.
Democratic socialism in the 21st century 31
The basic provision of people with vital
services such as energy, water and mo-
bility as well as housing, the social infra-
structure, health, education, culture and
sport must not be left to capitalist profit-
seeking. It must be publicly organised
and guaranteed. For returns-oriented
enterprises will adapt their range of
products not to human needs but only to
creditworthy demand. They court and
privilege the well-to-do and neglect the
financially weak.
Private energy suppliers favour key in-
dustrial customers and place the burden
mainly on poorer households. In place of
that, energy has to be more expensive
for large industrial consumers so as to
encourage more energy-saving technol-
ogies. On the other hand, poorer house-
holds in particular have to be relieved of
high energy costs and assisted in saving
energy. And also, the railways and local
and long-distance public transport must
not be oriented solely toward returns.
The decisive consideration must be that
they facilitate mobility, also between
smaller locations, and provide an attrac-
tive, wheelchair-accessible, reasonably
priced and environmentally sound alter-
native to private transport. The goal of
reducing energy consumption in trans-
portation must be pursued rigorously, for
example by shifting goods transport
from road to rail. The supply of energy
and gas, the water supply and waste
water disposal, telephone and Internet
communications, rail traffic and other
services are attached to federal, regional
and municipal grids that form natural
monopolies. If such monopolies are in
private hands, price gouging is the al-
most inevitable result. Often private
profit calculation leads to the servicing
and the maintenance of the grids being
neglected. This has negative long-term
effects. Net neutrality in digital commu-
nication must be defended against the
efforts of large corporations to privilege
large providers. Network services and
institutions of general interest must
remain public property or become public
property and be subject to democratic
control.
Major natural resources also belong to
everyone and therefore belong in public
hands as a matter of principle. According
to the Basic Law, property shall serve the
public good and not just that of the up-
per echelons. This constitutional prin-
ciple can only be redeemed in an econ-
omy in which big private investors and
financial investors do not have suprema-
cy, an economy based on a strong public
sector. In this context, strong and active
trade unions and civil society organisa-
tions are indispensable. Only with them
can welfare state regulation be organised
in a democratic way.
DIE LINKE advocates a banking system
with three pillars: savings banks, co-
operative banks and large state banks. A
functioning financial sector is a public
good, so providing it is a public task. The
European banking and financial system
belong under permanent social control.
The central banks have to be oriented
not just toward monetary and currency
stability but equally toward the goal of
employment and the goal of sustainable
development.
The form of property alone, whether it is
public or private, does not determine the
social and ecological quality of develop-
ment. Enterprises that are the property
of the federal, state or municipal gov-
ernments also need to be controlled.
They have to be subject to social and
ecological guidelines and be legally ob-
32 Democratic socialism in the 21st century
liged to serve the public weal. The work-
forces have to be guaranteed strong co-
determination rights as a corrective to
management decisions. The citizens
have to be given effective possibilities of
participating in the development of mu-
nicipal services. Unlike private enterpris-
es, public enterprises are not beholden
to short-term profit expectations. Public
property is no guarantee but is a prere-
quisite for new economic management
criteria and priorities. In addition, the
profits of public enterprises strengthen
public revenues, be it at the municipal,
the State or the federal level, and thus
benefit the public and not just a thin
stratum of private owners.
Solidarity economics
Cooperatives and other forms of solida-
rity-based self-help are an attempt to
develop new economic structures and
practices within the capitalist system
that are oriented towards the needs and
potentialities of the people. They are
based on common ownership and egali-
tarian rights of utilisation and participa-
tion and are directed towards preserving
or restoring decent living conditions and
solidarity-based relationships in the
community. They are part of the tradi-
tion of the labour movement, the new
social movements and the liberation and
appropriation movements throughout
the world.
Solidarity economics makes an impor-
tant contribution to the short-term re-
duction of the cost of living and to better
provision with vital goods and services.
In many places it pioneers ecological
products, recycling and the implementa-
tion of new solidarity-based ways of
working and living. DIE LINKE wants to
promote solidarity economics through
suitable framework conditions, regional
economic policy and support for busi-
ness start-ups. In particular, housing
cooperatives and other joint and demo-
cratically organised enterprises and self-
help organisations in the housing sector
are supported by the DIE LINKE Party to
the extent that they pursue the social
goal of affordable housing for large sec-
tions of the population.
Small and medium-sized entrepre-
neurs
Balancing the interests of those in the
liberal professions and small-scale en-
trepreneurs with the trade union inter-
ests of wage-earners will benefit democ-
racy and the national economy. Without
the courage and the persistence of craft
enterprises, inventors and small enter-
prises, sustainable environmental prod-
ucts would often not have been intro-
duced as they have and the expansion of
regional cycles would be unthinkable.
Moreover, small and medium-sized en-
terprises and the self-employed often
have great innovative and creative po-
tential. DIE LINKE participates in this with
help and advice in order to strengthen
the common effort for domestic pur-
chasing power, for freedom from being
dictated to by monopoly capital and the
banks. Self-confident self-employed
persons in the crafts, art and other ser-
vices are indispensable for democratic
socialism in the 21st century. As a matter
of principle the plural system of property
in democratic socialism includes private-
ly owned small and medium-sized enter-
prises. That also applies to the farmer's
ownership of land. We want general
conditions preventing self-exploitation
and pressure on employees.
Democratic socialism in the 21st century 33
Establishing an effective
democratic, social and environmen-
tal framework
Economic development must not be left
exclusively to the market and enterpris-
es; its general tendencies must be de-
mocratically controlled. In addition to
efficient public enterprises, systematic
public investment is necessary.
Economic and financial policy must as-
pire to full employment, strengthen
domestic demand and ensure social and
environmentally sustainable develop-
ment. To that end, working hours must
be gradually shortened as productivity
increases without loss of earnings. Re-
gional and sectoral economic policy must
exert a controlling influence on the in-
vestment decisions of companies on the
basis of democratic overall planning and
a strategically formative structural policy.
In addition to the expansion of direct
democracy, DIE LINKE advocates its ex-
tension through round tables and eco-
nomic and social councils at all levels.
Trade unions, municipal councils, con-
sumers and social, environmental and
other advocacy groups should be
represented in such bodies. They can
work out through dialogue what should
be seen as the guiding general interest
for each of the various areas of respon-
sibility and needs to be emphasised in
society. They should be involved in the
development of regional guidelines for
establishing democratic, social end envi-
ronmental frameworks and be given the
possibility of legislative initiative.
34 Left reform projects – Steps toward societal transformation
4. Left reform projects –
Steps toward societal transformation
The fight for another, better world, for
democratic socialism, begins with chang-
ing the society we live in. DIE LINKE
stands for the realisation of social justice,
the peaceful resolution of conflicts and
the democratisation of society. Income
and wealth are generated through work
on the basis of nature, science and cul-
ture. Wealth must no longer be concen-
trated in the hands of capital and large-
scale land owners. Gainful employment,
work in the family, caring for children,
partners and friends, participation in
cultural and political life and finally indi-
vidual continuing training and leisure are
essential areas of life. DIE LINKE wants to
create the opportunity for all men and
women to combine these areas of life in
a balance they determine themselves.
Their democratic organisation and gend-
er-equitable distribution also have an
important role in the organisation of
social living conditions and the demo-
cratic welfare state.
We want to realise the basic rights and
entitlements that are formulated in the
Basic Law: human dignity, free develop-
ment of one's personality, equality of all
persons, free choice of a trade or profes-
sion and place of work, inviolability of
the home, freedom of opinion, faith and
association, privacy of letters and tele-
communications, the right of asylum for
political refugees. Property entails com-
mitments and has to serve the public
good at the same time. Land, natural
resources and means of production can
be turned into common property for
purposes of socialisation. The Federal
Republic of Germany has to be a demo-
cratic and social welfare state. It has the
task of protecting the natural founda-
tions of life. All state power must pro-
ceed from the people and be exercised
in elections and plebiscites. Preparing for
or waging a war of aggression must be
made a punishable offence.
DIE LINKE demands the implementation
of economic, social and political reforms
that centre on the needs and interests of
the population and not the enrichment
aspirations of the top echelons. In fight-
ing for left reform projects today we are
at the same time working towards our
socialist goal.
Sustainably overcoming the economic
crisis and mass unemployment, the so-
cial crisis and the energy and climate
crisis requires a different economic order
that is not governed by the drive for
maximum profits. As a first step, a fun-
damental change of direction in eco-
nomic and social development is neces-
sary, a socio-ecological restructuring. For
that purpose the entire way of doing
business and living, and especially the
energy system, must be made compati-
ble with the natural environment and
converted to regenerative sources. That
must be coupled with a policy of improv-
ing working and living conditions for the
majority. Social security and the public
and social services must be expanded
rather than dismantled. Redistribution
from bottom to top must be stopped
and reversed. The financial sector must
be subjected to democratic control. In-
stead of privatising, the public and not-
for-profit sector must be expanded
Good work, social security and justice 35
again. Democratic and social rights and
opportunities for education and partici-
pation must be enhanced for all people
and especially for disadvantaged groups.
Peaceful and co-operative conflict reso-
lution, disarmament and global solidarity
are needed in place of warfare on what-
ever pretext. DIE LINKE is convinced that
a crisis-free, social, ecological and peace-
ful capitalism is not possible. But as a
result of social and political struggles and
the changes in the distribution of power,
it is possible to bring about a change in
the direction of development and thus
create the conditions for far-reaching
democratic and socialist restructuring.
The concepts, social forces and majori-
ties for alternatives to capitalism will be
developed in such conflicts.
4.1 How do we want to live?
Good work, social security and justice
DIE LINKE wants every person to lead a
self-determined life in dignity and social
security, to be able to make use of his or
her right to work, education and culture
and not to be discriminated against or
excluded.
Good work
Human life includes physical, cultural
and intellectual reproduction and thus
extends far beyond the realm of paid
work. Work is more than gainful em-
ployment, for without the work that has
to be done daily in the household, in
upbringing, care and nursing, in hono-
rary work and in the field of culture the
labour power invested in gainful em-
ployment could not be reproduced on a
social scale either. Gainful employment
has the specific significance that in it the
incomes are earned and the goods and
services are produced that can be
bought. The further development of the
forces of production takes place for the
most part in the area of gainful employ-
ment.
Good gainful employment promotes
individual strengths, creates potentials
and opens up prospects of personal and
vocational development. Good work is
compatible with family and social life.
The prerequisites for good gainful em-
ployment are the following: it must not
go against the conscience of the em-
ployee, it must ensure a good income, it
must take vocational qualifications into
consideration and it must not make too
great claims on flexibility and travel
times. It must not impinge on freedom
of political and religious conscience.
Gainful employment can be a source of
self-fulfilment, but for many, self-
fulfilment starts outside their employ-
ment relationships.
Mass unemployment is forced unem-
ployment and must be overcome. It is
humiliating for the person concerned, it
weakens the position of the employees,
the unemployed and the power of the
trade unions to assert themselves in
dealings with capital. It is a cause of
great financial pressure on the welfare
state. Among other things, this has the
effect that social tasks such as looking
after and caring for elderly and sick per-
sons and children is increasingly shifted
to the unpaid private sphere. In conse-
36 Good work, social security and justice
quence, this often means loss of profes-
sionalisation and for women in particular
an increase in temporal and psychologi-
cal stress. Mass unemployment also
weakens all political efforts towards
social and ecological organisation of the
mode of production and way of life.
Everyone has the right to work and the
right to reject specific job offers without
fear of penalty or sanctions. We do not
condone any compulsion to accept gain-
ful employment.
DIE LINKE wants good work rather than
unsecured, precarious and underpaid
employment. All gainful employment
therefore has to be socially insured. We
fight against regular employment being
replaced by labour leasing, bogus self-
employment, endless practicum loops or
mini-jobs. Regardless of gender, age and
employment status, there must be equal
remuneration and equal social standards
for equal work and work of equal value.
We have had enough of poverty wages
and wage dumping. The dispossession of
employees must be stopped. We there-
fore demand a statutory minimum wage
sufficient to secure one’s livelihood. The
minimum wage should amount to at
least 60 per cent of the national average
wage.
It must be easier than it is now to dec-
lare collective agreements generally
binding. Public contracts must be given
only to enterprises that adhere to the
collective agreements and disabled em-
ployee quota, pay minimum wages and
observe social and ecological criteria.
Withdrawal from collective agreements
must be combated. In future the Posting
of Workers Act must stipulate that for all
industries the local standards where the
work is done apply to all bidders. Labour
leasing must be prohibited. Protection
against dismissal must be improved and
term limitations must be subject to
stringent legal barriers. Inclusive em-
ployment for persons with disabilities
need to be promoted. Special needs
workshop employees also require wages
and salaries that make a self-determined
life possible.
We want regular wage increases that at
least compensate for productivity in-
creases and price increases. Manager
salaries must be limited to 20 times the
lowest wage groups in the company;
compensation in the form of stock op-
tions and excessive financial settlements
must be prohibited.
We want shorter working hours without
any reduction in pay or personnel. Good
work for everyone, but less work for the
individual – that is what we want as the
new full employment. The compatibility
of gainful employment with child raising
and care must be improved. Employees
also need greater self-determination and
co-determination rights with regard to
their working hours and enough free
time for recreation, leisure and self-
determined activities. Through reform of
the law on working hours, the maximum
permissible average work week should
be reduced to 40 hours. For the future
we aspire to an upper limit of 35 hours
and in the longer term 30 hours. We
want employees to be guaranteed wage
adjustments to ensure that their earn-
ings remain the same. The co-
determination rights of personnel coun-
cils and works councils have to be ex-
panded, especially with regard to staff
schedules and staff appointment
schemes. This is the way that shortening
the work week leads to more employ-
ment and the pressure to perform is
reduced. We want to improve occupa-
Good work, social security and justice 37
tional health and safety and the Young
Persons Employment Act. We want to
expand employees' claims to continuing
education and training. The return to
work after pregnancy or child-rearing
leave must also be facilitated through
continuing training opportunities pro-
vided free of charge.
Good work for everyone requires ex-
panded co-determination of the em-
ployees on the shop floor and in the
company. We are in favour of binding
veto rights for employees on important
social, economic and ecological issues.
Strong and militant trade unions are
necessary. DIE LINKE supports them in
their efforts. The unhindered right to
strike, including the right to call political
strikes and a general strike, must be
guaranteed. The lockout as a weapon of
the entrepreneurs against the trade
unions must be prohibited, the anti-
strike paragraph must be repealed, the
exodus from collective agreements must
be stopped by law and the right of class
action for trade unions must be intro-
duced.
The rapid growth of information and
communication technologies and of the
Internet contains new opportunities to
separate work from its workplace setting
and to work self-determinedly with one's
own means of production. In particular
the solo self-employed in bogus self-
employment who are dependent on one
client may be unable to survive if orders
fail to come in, and they do not have
adequate social security. At the same
time, it increases the risks that even
skilled "information work" will be relo-
cated, awarded to cheaper bidders in
and outside the country in order to exert
pressure on wages and working condi-
tions. Unprotected jobs, low pay and
poor working conditions are especially
prevalent in the cultural and creative
economy and in the software industry as
well as in call centres. Self-employed
persons and mini-jobbers as well as trai-
nees, working under appalling condi-
tions, are exploited on a massive scale.
DIE LINKE advocates regulating trainee-
ships as learning relationships and set-
ting minimum rates of pay. Social insur-
ance protection must be extended to all
self-employed persons, and their clients
should have to make the same contribu-
tion to the cost as employers do in the
case of employees. Where possible,
common rules of remuneration should
be applied for services provided to en-
terprises by self-employed persons.
Active economic and labour market
policy
The neo-liberal de-nationalisation and
privatisation policy of past years has led
to massive undersupply in many areas.
Action to overcome the public invest-
ment deficit and expand public employ-
ment is overdue. It is a disgrace that in a
rich country like Germany people live in
poverty or homelessness, children and
young people do not receive a good
education, persons in need of care are
neglected, libraries and swimming pools
are closed down and school buildings fall
into disrepair and streets decompose for
lack of funds.
We need a change of direction in eco-
nomic and financial policy. It must aspire
to a new era of full employment, higher
mass incomes and the strengthening of
public finances. But there must be no
fixation on growth that is blind to social
and ecological considerations; instead it
must be linked with viable restructuring,
decreasing raw material consumption
38 Good work, social security and justice
and decreasing environmental pollution.
Domestic demand must be strengthened
through redistribution in favour of low
and medium incomes and the expansion
of public services. DIE LINKE demands
greater public programmes for the fu-
ture and investment programmes for
education and for the social, ecological
and wheelchair-accessible transport
infrastructure. That creates demand and
employment in private firms as well as in
the public service.
Employment in the field of public and
social services is severely underdeve-
loped in Germany in comparison to oth-
er countries and in addition it is often
poorly paid. We want to create millions
of new regular jobs in these areas paid
according to scale, thus satisfying urgent
social needs at the same time. This can
and must be solidly financed through a
socially equitable and ecological taxation
policy imposing more taxes on the rich
and financially robust enterprises and
applying special taxes to environmental
consumption and resource consumption.
An active state industry and service poli-
cy is needed to prevent de-
industrialisation and to ensure jobs in
manufacturing, commerce and other
service areas. We demand the prohibi-
tion of mass layoffs. That will include
socially secured transitions of employees
from shrinking industries into industries
with a future on a large scale.
We want to set up a public future fund
with which threatened but viable firms
can be helped and socio-ecological re-
structuring can be promoted. However,
state aid must only be provided in ex-
change for a corresponding public sector
share in ownership or workforce shares.
These proprietary rights are to be used
to change the company's management
criteria: the present fixing of returns,
benefiting solely the owners or share-
holders, must be replaced with another
kind of management that measures
company success by long-term growth,
the interest of the employees and eco-
logical sustainability.
We want an active labour market policy
committed especially to helping all those
people whose chances in the labour
market are poor. The knowledge, skills
and capabilities of older employees must
be sustainably integrated into the labour
market. This involves arrangements to
protect people over 50 years of age from
dismissal and enable them in case of
unemployment to obtain work, paid
according to scale, that corresponds to
their knowledge and capabilities, for the
benefit of all. Publicly supported em-
ployment must offer worthwhile jobs
paid according to scale. These jobs
should be created in particular where
the market does not meet the social,
cultural and ecological needs. Accep-
tance of these jobs shall be voluntary.
We are discussing to what extent a pub-
licly supported employment sector can
go beyond labour market policy and
lastingly develop and strengthen em-
ployment in the non-profit area.
Control the finance sector demo-
cratically and make it serve the pub-
lic weal
The private banks are mainly responsible
for the speculative bubbles of the past
few years and the billions in losses in-
curred. Private banks must therefore be
nationalised, subjected to democratic
control and made to serve the public
weal. There must be strict regulation to
Good work, social security and justice 39
guarantee that the banking sector re-
turns to performing its public service
mission in the future: the funding of
worthwhile investments, and especially
small and medium-sized businesses, at
favourable rates of interest, the handling
of payment transactions, the provision of
a current account for everyone without
charge and the safe investment of pri-
vate savings. The investment banking
that has grown explosively in recent
years must be phased out, it must be
forbidden for banks to trade in securities
for their own account and to speculate in
derivatives, as well as to transact any
business outside of their own balance
and to have any dealings with companies
or persons legally registered in tax ha-
vens. Framework stipulations for credit
and savings interest rates are urgently
needed. Banks must be legally obliged to
allocate a stipulated minimum propor-
tion of their balance sheet total to small
and medium-sized enterprises in the
form of micro-loans at low rates of inter-
est.
We demand effective control and regula-
tion of international movements of capi-
tal and the prohibition of highly specula-
tive investment vehicles which threaten
the stability of the financial system and
hence the entire world economy. We
want to prohibit speculative investment
vehicles such as hedge funds and private
equity companies from doing business in
the Federal Republic. All financial trans-
actions such as stock exchange turnover,
off-exchange trading or currency trans-
actions must be taxed in order to make
speculation unattractive. This involves in
particular prohibiting speculation with
agricultural land and agricultural raw
materials of every kind, including water.
Short selling has to be prohibited. As an
initial step we demand that a stock ex-
change tax be introduced in Germany.
The exchange rates of the key currencies
must be stabilised through target zones.
At the European level, regulation and
surveillance structures must be erected
and existing ones strengthened. We
stand for the coordination of national tax
policies in order to end tax dumping
inside the EU. Tax havens – where there
is no effective regulation in any case –
must be put out of operation by prevent-
ing business dealings with them.
Sustainable agricultural economies
and rural development
Agrarian primary production is one of
the key areas in socio-ecological restruc-
turing and in ensuring food sovereignty.
Through sustainable production me-
thods and procedures, it must meet the
demand for raw materials for safe,
healthy food and feed as well as biomass
for energy and materials. At the same
time the soil must be kept fertile, the
water clean and the air pure and biologi-
cal diversity must be retained in the
cultivated landscapes. We want innova-
tive, resource-saving agriculture and
forestry, horticulture and fisheries in
harmony with nature. We oppose the
continuing over-fishing and exploitation
of the oceans and inland waters. We
demand a significant increase in organic
agriculture and environmentally friendly
farming by all agricultural enterprises, so
that in the future all food will be pro-
duced sustainably. In that way the use of
agrochemicals, synthetic fertilisers, wa-
ter and energy can be reduced.
We want to strengthen sustainably oper-
ating family farms, co-operative and
municipal farms and combat the concen-
tration of private landed property, de-
fend the achievements of the land
40 Good work, social security and justice
reform and support diverse forms of
inter-farm, regional and supra-regional
co-operation of the agricultural and food
enterprises. We believe in socio-
ecologically oriented structural change
through co-operation.
For GM-free agriculture
DIE LINKE stands for GM-free agriculture.
Genetic engineering in agriculture is of
benefit only to a handful of international
seed and agrochemical corporations that
strive for global control of the agricultur-
al sector and the food supply. Genetic
engineering in agriculture involves great
health, ecological, economic and social
risks for farmers, gardeners, beekeepers
and consumers. The allegations of bene-
fits for agriculture have long been re-
futed by the disastrous experiences in
other countries such as Canada and In-
dia. Agricultural biotechnology can nei-
ther reduce the use of pesticides nor
solve the world food problem. Coexis-
tence between GM farming on the one
hand and organic or conventional farm-
ing on the other is not possible. Once
transgenic plants have been released
they can no longer be contained.
DIE LINKE demands an immediate ban
on agricultural biotechnology – here, in
Europe and world-wide. Zero tolerance
must prevail with respect to seeds. Ter-
minator crops must be prohibited. DIE
LINKE supports the establishment of
GM-free zones and the creation of pro-
ducer and marketing communities for
GM-free production from conventional
or organic farming. The domestic pro-
duction of protein feed must be intensi-
fied. We do not need genetically mod-
ified organisms on our fields, in the feed-
ing-trough, on our plates or in our tanks.
Sustainable and environmentally friendly
production of healthy food and feed as
well as sustainable raw materials is only
possible with GM-free agriculture. Agri-
cultural biotechnology is risky technolo-
gy and runs counter to our objective of
socio-ecological reconstruction.
Support for disadvantaged regions;
responsibility in East Germany
DIE LINKE aspires to equally good living
conditions in all regions of the Federal
Republic of Germany and the harmonisa-
tion of living standards in the European
Union. In this context, European policy
must strengthen the regions that are
seriously lagging behind in development
and at the same time sustain stability in
all other regions. The further develop-
ment of EU structural aid must take into
consideration the requirements of cli-
mate protection and the energy turna-
round; it must stimulate ecological re-
structuring and the expansion of public
services of general interest.
Countries and regions with little or poor
infrastructure in a co-operative and so-
cial federal state must be supported. We
are against competitive federalism, in
which the states compete with one
another with different taxes, standards
and conditions in the public service. It
benefits only the rich states as well as
the mobile enterprises and wealthy
population groups. It hurts the people,
whose living and working conditions are
worsened.
What is needed is a strong regional poli-
cy that democratically involves the citi-
zens in the region and promotes all exist-
ing local and regional development po-
tential in regional development plans
and participatory budgets. What is re-
quired is improved co-operation and the
Good work, social security and justice 41
interweaving of centres of growth and
rural areas with poor infrastructures. The
aim is to create liveable general condi-
tions through extensive educational,
cultural, leisure and childminding facili-
ties and the promotion of attractive
workplaces – especially for young people
– so that it pays to stay in the region.
Because of its historical development
alone, representing eastern German
interests is of special importance to DIE
LINKE. East Germany needs a new policy
approach in order to reduce the ex-
tremely high unemployment and lower
wages than in the West and to end the
continued exodus of young people. New
paths of development for East Germany
demand state development concepts
and a long-term all-German innovation,
investment and infrastructure policy so
as to specifically offset East Germany's
development handicaps. That will in-
volve increased investment in education,
training and research, the fostering of
sectors and enterprises with a future as
well as centres of regional economic
development, for instance through the
co-operation of research institutions and
networks of enterprises.
Redistribution and fair taxation
DIE LINKE wants social security for eve-
ryone and social justice. We therefore
aspire to social redistribution from top to
bottom. Equitable, balanced distribution
ratios are also important to strengthen
democracy, because disposal of substan-
tial financial resources gives one political
power as well.
We want to strengthen public finances
by means of an equitable taxation policy
that leads to greater revenues. Only the
rich can afford to have a poor state. The
profiteers who benefit from finance
capitalism, the redistribution policy and
the bank rescue operations of the gov-
ernments must share in the costs of
crisis management and socio-ecological
restructuring. We demand the re-
introduction of the wealth tax in the
form of an annual millionaires' tax of five
per cent of private millions. At the same
time we demand a substantial increase
in the inheritance tax on large fortunes.
All this is important for reducing the
extreme inequality and concentration of
private wealth as well. DIE LINKE advo-
cates ecological taxes with an effective
guidance function steering toward re-
ducing resource consumption. These
taxes must be levied at the production
end rather than from the final consumer.
Corporations and other financially po-
werful companies must pay more taxes
again. We want to close tax loopholes.
We demand a large increase in the top
rate of income tax. We demand control
notes from banks concerning capital
gains and a requirement to report finan-
cial assets abroad as well as more staff
for the revenue authorities to combat
tax evasion and tax fraud. Capital gains
must again be taxed at the personal tax
rate instead of the uniform rate of only
25 per cent. On the other hand, we want
tax relief for those with low or moderate
incomes. We demand abolition of the
tax privilege for married couples, be-
cause it fosters the traditional male-
dominated single-earner marriage and is
an obstacle to the employment of wom-
en. This places other kinds of families at
a disadvantage. Instead, public measures
to promote children have to be ex-
panded.
We want to introduce a mileage allow-
ance irrespective of the means of trans-
42 Good work, social security and justice
port used for the trip to and from work,
one that also benefits low-paid em-
ployees who do not pay taxes. DIE LINKE
wants to extend the reduced rate of
value added tax to labour-intensive craft
services.
Social security in the democratic
welfare state
Everyone needs social security in order
to live a self-determined life and be able
to fully exercise the right to democratic
co-determination. DIE LINKE consistently
stands for the expansion and more pre-
cise definition of the welfare state re-
quirement in the Basic Law. In particular
it is a matter of combating existing ten-
dencies in the direction of a welfare
state based on good will alone. Funda-
mental social rights must therefore be
inscribed in the constitution. This will
require strengthening the welfare state
principle in the Basic Law through the
introduction of basic social rights such as
the right to work, education, housing, a
basic socio-cultural standard of living and
health care.
We want an active welfare state that
provides security against life's risks, such
as illness, accidents, dependence on
long-term care and invalidity as well as
disability and unemployment, protects
people from poverty and guarantees a
self-determined life in dignity for the
elderly. We believe in financial support
for self-organisation from public funds,
especially for the unemployed. Welfare
state benefits must be based on individ-
ual legal claims in order to prevent pa-
triarchal dependencies and bureaucratic
arbitrariness.
The policy of de-nationalisation, liberali-
sation and unconditional orientation
toward competition has to be reversed.
Satisfaction of such basic human needs
as housing, education and health must
be ensured for everyone irrespective of
their ability to pay. It is a public task to
ensure services of general interest in the
supply of water, energy, transport and
communication services everywhere,
affordable for everyone and in high qual-
ity. Like hospitals, schools and universi-
ties, those services must be organised in
public enterprises that are not profit
oriented. The right to decent housing
must be enshrined in legislation. Partici-
pation in culture must be ensured. We
want supervision and leisure activities
for children and adolescents as well as
social services for family and educational
support to be easily accessible. All those
who live in Germany, irrespective of
nationality, must be protected by the
democratic welfare state from marginali-
sation.
Adequate housing and self-determined
living for all generations are among the
most important preconditions for social
security and human dignity. Housing
must be affordable for everyone on a
long-term basis. This implies a socially
balanced rent law, rents commensurate
with the value of the home and periodi-
cally adjusted housing subsidies. We
demand the construction of wheelchair-
accessible social housing as well as the
promotion of all forms of housing own-
ership on equal terms and active promo-
tion of urban development. A not-for-
profit housing association should be
responsible for housing as a service of
general interest and contribute to the
balanced development of the housing
market. DIE LINKE will continue to fight
for inclusion of the basic right to housing
in the Basic Law.
Good work, social security and justice 43
Mass unemployment is one major rea-
son for the financial problems of the
social security funds. Others are political
decisions to the detriment of social in-
surance, wage dumping and the demoli-
tion of jobs covered by social security.
These developments have led to the
erosion of contribution revenues. There
is no demographic reason for pension
cuts either. Despite the increase in the
proportion of the population that is el-
derly, pension increases are feasible. This
possibility is offered by increasing labour
productivity and full use of social man-
power potential.For the increasing prod-
uctivity of labour, if distributed on the
basis of solidarity, will make possible
continuing increases in pensions as well
as in income from labour despite the
growing proportion of elderly people in
the population.
We want retirement insurance based on
solidarity as old age security, leading to a
statutory pension well above the poverty
line and to a large extent ensuring reten-
tion of the living standards attained
through work. It would make state sub-
sidies for private old-age provision su-
perfluous. The latter cannot avert the
threat of poverty in old age and has
been a considerable factor in the bal-
looning of the financial sphere. We call
for retirement insurance based on soli-
darity that provides statutory pension
insurance funded on a parity basis for all
women and men as well as a solidarity-
based minimum pension in the context
of retirement insurance to prevent po-
verty in old age. The solidarity-based
minimum pension is fed on the one hand
from individual contribution-based
pension claims and on the other from
taxes, for those whose income and as-
sets would mean a life below the poverty
line.
We want to strengthen the solidarity
adjustment in the statutory pension
scheme and therefore first substantially
increase and finally do away with the
contribution ceiling and ramp down the
pension claims for the upper income
brackets. We fight for approximation of
the annuity values in the East to those in
the West. We adamantly oppose raising
the retirement age to 67. We demand
access to the full retirement benefit after
40 contribution years, including equiva-
lent periods, and the possibility of leav-
ing the work force at the age of between
60 and 65 without curtailment of bene-
fits.
In the case of unemployment as well, the
social benefits must ensure a standard of
living close to that attained previously.
We therefore demand: Hartz IV must go.
DIE LINKE demands in its place unem-
ployment benefits determined by past
income but at least providing minimum
security, adequate to the need and not
subject to penalty, that really prevents
poverty and respects the civil rights of
those affected. This involves the aboli-
tion of penalties, of the special arrange-
ments for young people below the age
of 25, and of the communities of need
and communities of responsibility and
the introduction of the individual prin-
ciple on the basis of the statutory main-
tenance obligations.
Some parts of DIE LINKE also champion
the concept of an unconditional basic
income in order to uncouple the right to
a secure existence and social participa-
tion for everyone from employment.
This concept is being hotly debated in
the Party. We want to continue the dis-
cussion.
44 Good work, social security and justice
DIE LINKE fights for a guaranteed child
allowance for all children and adoles-
cents that prevents child poverty and
offers all children and adolescents good
opportunities of participation and devel-
opment and protects them from exclu-
sion and discrimination.
DIE LINKE fights for a democratic public
health system founded on the Solidarity-
based Citizen Insurance as general health
and nursing insurance and public health
care. Everyone would contribute to the
Solidarity-based Citizen Insurance
scheme in proportion to their income
(employment, capital and other income).
The Solidarity-based Citizen Insurance
does away with the distinction between
statutory and private health and nursing
insurance and is based on the restora-
tion of parity and the abolition of extra
payments.
What we and the World Health Organi-
sation (WHO) mean by health is "a state
of complete physical, mental and social
well-being and not merely the absence
of disease or infirmity." The services of
the public health system must unreser-
vedly provide need-oriented, nation-
wide, near-to-home and prompt health
care to the population and be available
to everyone regardless of social, financial
and residence status.
Health is not a commodity. The public
property relations and structures of the
health system are to be organised as a
branch of the public services of general
interest. The prices of drugs must be
controlled by law. The democratic co-
determination of the insured, of inde-
pendent patients' representations and of
employees in the health service has to
be regulated by law. Surpluses generated
in the health system are to be used for
the benefit of the insured and the em-
ployees. Misappropriations such as
speculation with insurance contributions
must be prohibited. In-patient and out-
patient medical treatment, rehabilitation
and nursing services are to be organised
across sectors as integrated care. We
want to promote polyclinic-type struc-
tures, the establishment of outpatient
treatment centres employing specialists
in various disciplines so as to ensure
reasonable use of resources rather than
cuts in services. Health promotion and
disease prevention must be developed
as a separate pillar of the health system
and anchored in a Prevention Act.
We want a liberal and enlightened drug
policy in Germany. Drugs are an every-
day phenomenon. Alcohol abuse is a
social problem. The distinction between
legal and illegalised substances is arbi-
trary. Drugs and their abuse can lead to
serious health, social and material prob-
lems. We therefore advocate a rational
and humane drug policy comprising the
decriminalisation of drug consumption
and in the long run the legalisation of all
drugs. That would mean decriminalisa-
tion of the addicts and the organisation
of assistance and legal and controlled
administration of drugs to them. Basical-
ly we want a society that relies not on
punishment and repression of drug con-
sumers but on preventive action and
public information.
4.2 How do we want to make decisions?
Democratisation of society
45 Free access to education and knowledge
The Federal Republic of Germany needs
renewal as a democratic and social state
governed by the rule of law. Representa-
tive parliamentary democracy must
therefore be supplemented by direct
democracy. Referenda should become
an important means to that end.
Changes in property relations, especially
in the financial sector, strengthening of
the public sector and a democratic public
are our alternatives to neo-liberal priva-
tisation and an authoritarian law-and-
order state.
Strengthening of the parliaments
and participatory democracy
For DIE LINKE, political and social, indi-
vidual and collective civil liberties and
participation rights belong together. DIE
LINKE wants to expand democratic con-
trol and co-determination in the econo-
my and in the state, in the mass media,
education, science and other areas of
society. Factories and workforces must
no longer be at the disposal of financial
investors. We therefore advocate the
extension of parity codetermination and
for assertion of the right of the work-
force to veto the closure of factories that
are not threatened with insolvency.
Capitalism has undermined the founda-
tions of democracy as the rule of the
people. Elections become a farce if those
elected allow their decisions to be dic-
tated by big corporations and the weal-
thy and thus evade democratic scrutiny.
We therefore demand that business
associations and businesses not be al-
lowed to donate to political parties and
be forbidden to have members of the
state parliaments, the federal parliament
or the European Parliament on their
payrolls. Large donations by private indi-
viduals must also be limited so as to
protect democracy from the influence of
big money.
We advocate the strengthening of all
representative bodies – from the munic-
ipal council to the European Parliament
– as democratic decision-making bodies.
To that end, the representative bodies
need the corresponding rights and re-
sources so that they can act on an equal
footing with governments and adminis-
trations. The parliaments must not only
be informed in a more timely and com-
prehensive manner by the governments
about the preparation of decisions but
must also be involved in the process.
Parliamentary public relations has to be
improved. The positions of trade unions,
social, environmental, consumers, te-
nants and disabled associations, self-
help organisations and democratic
movements must be heard at an early
stage. The rights of committees and
members of legislative bodies to be in-
formed and to inspect records must be
reinforced.
The European Parliament must be given
an independent right of initiative. As the
European Union has become bigger and
more complex geographically, socially,
and culturally as well as administratively
and its decision-making powers have
become more extensive, greater moni-
toring and participation rights of the
federal and state parliaments have be-
come a necessary and indispensable
element in the European legislative
process.
DIE LINKE continues to demand that the
voting age in all elections be lowered to
16. We advocate the development of
new forms of politics from below. That
includes the political strike and the gen-
eral strike as well.
46 Democratisation of society
A vibrant democracy must create ex-
panded opportunities of direct demo-
cratic decision-making about and partic-
ipation in popular initiatives and plebis-
cites as well as public petitions and refe-
renda. At the same time, obligatory
referenda on the EU treaties should be
introduced; citizens EU-wide must be
granted the right to effectively influence
European decision-making through citi-
zens' initiatives, petitions and referenda.
Democratic municipalities
The freedom of citizens to determine
their own lives themselves depends in
great measure on the municipalities.
Important everyday issues as well as
issues concerning the future of the so-
ciety are decided there. DIE LINKE is
therefore committed to the strengthen-
ing of municipal self-government, to
strong municipal property and to the
efficient development of public services
of general interest. If democracy is not to
be an empty shell, municipalities need
adequate financial resources and possi-
bilities of intervening in economic and
social processes. For that reason as well,
we oppose the privatisation of public
services of general interest and social
security systems and demand the rein-
forcement of public property.
For DIE LINKE the municipalities are not
just an administrative level but also a
decisive creativity level. Here the citizens
experience all the inconsistencies of
social development directly and learn
how politics functions. With the instru-
ments of direct citizen participation, they
can bring about changes. Municipalities
must have a stronger position in the
federal system. In that way citizens will
have greater influence on the way local
and regional problems are resolved. In
the municipalities, there is a chance of
trying out new lifestyles. For that pur-
pose, space must be made for political,
social and cultural self-organisation.
Services of general interest must be
provided by the municipalities them-
selves. There must be no room for profit
interests in this context. It is therefore in
the interest of the public weal that pub-
lic property be preserved and that no
further privatisation of municipal servic-
es be permitted. Instead, re-
municipalisation is necessary to streng-
then services of general interest.
To reinforce the position of the munici-
palities in the federal system, changes
are needed in at least three areas. Mu-
nicipal constitutional law must be
framed in such a way that the municipal-
ities can undertake tasks on their own
responsibility to a greater extent. A fi-
nancial constitution is needed to ensure
need-based funding of the municipali-
ties. Municipal commercial law must be
framed in such a way that municipal
enterprises can take part in economic life
on equal terms. Public enterprises must
be reinforced so that regional business
cycles can develop better. To implement
these three areas of action it is neces-
sary to expand municipal democracy.
The related strengthening of citizen par-
ticipation in decision-making processes
will safeguard municipal services of gen-
eral interest.
DIE LINKE acts for a participatory budget
policy, for participatory budgets as an
important form of municipal democracy.
Our vision is solidarity-based citizen's
municipalities in which people can de-
termine and manage their own affairs
and take the social and ecological re-
structuring of their communities into
their own hands, independently.
Democratisation of society 47
Civil society self-government is an impor-
tant field for democratic co-
determination. It strengthens social co-
hesion in the cities, villages and munici-
palities. Associations, clubs and initia-
tives enable many citizens to assume
responsibility for societal tasks in many
areas. DIE LINKE therefore advocates
supporting civil society actors who as-
sume societal tasks. It demands transpa-
rency and public control in this connec-
tion so as to ensure the observance of
social and ecological standards. The pre-
conditions are democratic legitimisation
and adequate funding.
Rigorous implementation of the
separation of powers – Implement-
ing self-administration in the judi-
ciary
Germany is the tail-light in Europe and
was called upon by the Parliamentary
Assembly of the Council of Europe to
follow the example of the overwhelming
majority of European states and ensure
the independence of the judiciary by
making possible the self-administration
of the courts and public prosecutors
through judicial councils.
DIE LINKE therefore works at the federal
and state levels for rigorous implementa-
tion of the principle of separation of
powers and democratisation of the judi-
ciary. The Judicial Councils to be formed
are independent of party politics and
exclusively bound to implement the
requirement in the Basic Law that justice
be granted. Judges and public prosecu-
tors should be appointed exclusively by
electoral committees. Care must be tak-
en to ensure that the candidates se-
lected adequately represent all strata of
society. Only the representative compo-
sition of the judiciary provides a guaran-
tee that justice will indeed be done in
the name of the people. Strengthening
the rule of law also requires indepen-
dence of the public prosecutors equal to
that of judges.
Democratically controlled media
Media power and media manipulation
are a threat to democracy. That makes it
all the more important to preserve a free
Internet without censorship and with
binding network neutrality. For DIE LINKE
the Internet is a public good; the net-
work infrastructure belongs under social
control and must be democratised.
Democratic media demand democratic
editorial statutes, the strengthening of a
broad counter-public and the application
of anti-trust law to the media sector.
In the digital age, media education must
be seen as a task of the whole of society.
DIE LINKE demands media education
opportunities that are open to all popu-
lation groups regardless of age, social
position and region to teach competence
in dealing with the Internet and digital
media.
Citizens must develop analytical skills in
order to understand and critically eva-
luate digital media and content and be
able to communicate in a variety of con-
texts. A patriarchally conceived pedago-
gy of prohibition and preservation, de-
signed to limit competent media beha-
viour on the basis of a repressive con-
cept of protecting minors is not
compatible with an emancipatory view
of humanity and is rejected by DIE LINKE.
Many people have no access to modern
media and can therefore not make use
of the possibilities offered by modern
48 Democratisation of society
information technology. The mass media
are for the most part owned by a few
corporations and financial investors.
They co-determine what we should learn
and know, talk about and think. Media
use and control by the media increasing-
ly overlap. DIE LINKE fights against this
division, against surveillance and control,
for freedom of information and opinion
and for the strengthening of public me-
dia.
Democracy in the digital society
The net offers new opportunities for
participation, openness and transparen-
cy. More and more, public opinion is
being shaped there. The possibilities of
greater social participation in political
decision-making in the digital age have
to be seized by DIE LINKE – in the inter-
est of citizens who have turned their
backs on politics as well. DIE LINKE is
aware of the democratic potential of the
web to defend and expand social partici-
pation through Open Government and E-
democracy (e.g. online petitions, partici-
patory budgets). We are calling for a
wider range of offers and the use of
open data, that is, non-sensitive data
such as archives and budget data or legal
texts.
Social networks on the Internet, search
machines, geodata services, online shops
and other content providers also collect
the personal data of millions of people
world-wide, even against their will, and
link those data. More and more diverse
data profiles of users are being put to-
gether and used for private business.
The advantage of freely accessible in-
formation and social interaction is can-
celled out by the exploitation of private
data. The world as a media village needs
protective mechanisms to prevent
people from being buried under data
sets and their exploitation in the digital
age.
Equality and freedom online
Information has become an even more
decisive resource and productive force.
In the networks of digital information
production and communication, users
have made decentralised stocks of know-
ledge retrievable world-wide, have de-
mocratised access to the cultural memo-
ry and have created new forms of com-
munity. Access to knowledge production
and the power to decide on the selection
and utilisation of information determine
how and by whom the networks of digi-
tal communication will be controlled in
the future. Access to communication and
information, as the ownership issue, and
the possibilities of acquiring the tech-
nology of digital culture form the basis
for democracy, pluralism and opinion-
forming on the Internet. DIE LINKE de-
mands that everyone be provided with
the infrastructure for fast Internet as a
basic utility.
We want to defend and expand the
freedom of knowledge in the digital
world. The open information system is
meeting with increasing resistance on
the part of business and control inter-
ests. They want it to be subjected to
sweeping restrictions. Private business
oligopolies and state surveillance inter-
ests threaten the decentralised nature of
the Internet and hence equality and
freedom online. We stand for network
diversity. Information must be free. Digi-
tal technology has opened up and ex-
tended access to knowledge and cultural
goods. It has become customary to see
them as public goods. Instead of crimina-
lising users, one should develop political
Democratisation of society 49
solutions for new reimbursement mod-
els for creative and cultural workers.
The Internet can be used as a platform
for free self-organisation, for evading
corporate constraints and dominance
over opinion-making. It enables every-
one to become individually creative and
to create a counter-public. We support
users whose cause is the freedom to be
informed and to express themselves.
Reinforcing individual rights
To counter the dismantling of civil rights
and the expansion of the security state,
we advocate the reinforcement of indi-
vidual rights, the protection of personal
data, participation opportunities for
social organisations and movements,
and independent democratic control of
the state's security agencies. We support
initiatives for the democratic self-
administration of public spaces. We op-
pose the expansion of the surveillance
state and demand strict separation and
democratic control of the police, the
army and the secret services. We want
to do away with the secret services.
We call for equal political and social
rights for all persons living in Germany
and the European Union, for political
and social rights are human rights. The
state governed by the rule of law must
become social. The condition for a vi-
brant democracy, that equality before
the law is guaranteed, is materially un-
fulfilled at present. Only those with the
requisite financial resources can afford a
court case if a large amount of money is
in dispute. This must be corrected so
that all people are on an equal footing
before the courts.
The right to informational self-
determination is increasingly coming
under threat. The idea of transparent
citizens frightens us. For us the right to
privacy and informational self-
determination is an indispensable prere-
quisite for democratic statehood. The
"data strip-tease" places the entire
population under general suspicion; this
particularly affects the socially disadvan-
taged when they apply for benefits and
those who are politically active on the
left, who are subjected to total surveil-
lance. We call for frugality in recording
data and for extensive procedural rights
with regard to their processing and their
security. Specifically, we are against the
erection of censorship infrastructures on
the Internet and online legal searches
and against the extension of video sur-
veillance and the comprehensive storage
of telecommunications data.
Equality and gender justice
There is still no balanced and equitable
relationship between the sexes. The
traditional role stereotypes still influence
the lives of women and men and com-
promise their quality of life and their
chances of vocational and social devel-
opment. Patriarchal structures still per-
vade all areas of society. Women do
more than half of all work in society,
especially unpaid domestic, caring and
reproduction work, but their work is less
acknowledged and in the field of gainful
employment they are still paid substan-
tially less than their male colleagues.
They have correspondingly lower claims
to social benefits. The working condi-
tions, inferior pay and long working
hours in particular place women at a
disadvantage and consolidate the tradi-
tional gender relations. The conse-
quence is that women often cannot earn
50 Democratisation of society
their own living by themselves. Financial
dependence often encourages the
emergence of violent relationships as
well.
Every third woman in the world and
every fourth woman in Germany and
Europe is exposed to violence. Violence
against women is an important instru-
ment of warfare. But women experience
violence at the hands of men in the pri-
vate sphere and in the family too. Wom-
en are sexually harassed at work as well.
Violence has many faces. Violation of the
right to self-determination, physical and
emotional harassment, humiliation and
discrimination. Migrant women and
women forced into illegality are victims
of violence even more often. DIE LINKE
therefore wants to expand prevention,
and ensure lasting funding for indepen-
dent women's shelters and shelters for
victims of violence. Gender-specific vi-
olence must be fully recognised as
grounds for asylum and victim protection
must be expanded. This applies not just
to gender-specific persecution on the
part of the state but also to persecution
in the family and social sphere – forced
marriage and genital mutilation, for ex-
ample. Victims of trafficking in women
must be accorded the right of residence.
We want to combat sexual mutilation
and forced marriage effectively. DIE
LINKE rejects the instrumentalisation of
women's rights as justification for racism
and wars.
DIE LINKE sees itself as a party with so-
cialist and feminist aspirations. We advo-
cate a self-determined, solidarity-based
life in which gainful employment, family
work, social and political engagement
are compatible for men and women. We
advocate changing the social security
systems, the organisation of the world of
work, the supply of public services and
the framework conditions for political
participation in the economy and politics
in such a way that discrimination is ab-
olished. All political decisions and pro-
posals must be systematically judged by
the effects they have on women and
men.
We support measures that contribute to
increasing the rate of women's employ-
ment; we fight for equal pay for equal
work and work of equal value, for short-
er working hours and for the equitable
distribution of gainful employment and
family duties between men and women.
We call for an Equality Act that also ap-
plies to private business. Increasing la-
bour flexibility must not lead to social
interaction and leisure being subjected
to the dictates of 24/7 availability.
Another reason why we reject preca-
rious, insecure employment and the
increasing flexibility of work is that such
working conditions are harmful to fami-
lies and children. Instead we want work-
ing hours and job opportunities to be
made flexible and socially secure in such
a way that they are family- and children-
friendly. We demand the right to all-day
free care and education in crèches, kin-
dergartens and day-care centres for all
children. That is a fundamental precon-
dition for good early childhood support
for all children and is necessary if wom-
en and men are to be able to reconcile
gainful employment and family life on an
equal footing. Quotas remain an impor-
tant means of promoting gender equity.
We advocate a self-determined life in
solidarity and the removal of the termi-
nation of pregnancy as a criminal offence
(§218) from the Penal Code.
Democratisation of society 51
Sexual diversity and self-
determination
DIE LINKE stands for an emancipatory
policy that takes into consideration and
supports different lifestyles. Heterosex-
uality and the idea that there are only
two genders is tacitly accepted as the
political and social norm. This norm ex-
cludes. DIE LINKE supports the rights to
sexual and gender diversity in society.
This implies the equal social status and
acceptance of the basic rights of lesbian,
gay, transsexual and transgender per-
sons. Civil status law must take into ac-
count in particular the human rights of
intersexual and transsexual persons.
Sexual adaptation operations on children
must be stopped. We demand equal
legal status in all areas of law an in all
legal institutions.
Migration and integration as a so-
cial and democratic issue – open
borders for persons in need!
Germany is a country of immigration. DIE
LINKE rejects a migration and integration
policy that grants social and political
rights on the basis of whether people are
“of use” or “of no use” to capital. We
want to achieve social and political par-
ticipation for all men and women living
in Germany.
Family reunification must be made poss-
ible both for children and for same-sex
and opposite-sex partners as well as
relatives in the second line. Promoting
language development and promoting
educational success are important, but
insufficient for integration. We want to
eliminate the structural discrimination in
access to education, to the training and
labour markets and to social services.
Health care must be guaranteed to all
persons living in Germany, regardless of
their residence status. Persons seeing
protection must not be turned away. We
demand open borders for everyone.
DIE LINKE advocates respectful social
interaction in recognition of the diversity
of all people of different ethnic origins.
That requires above all the democratic
co-determination of migrants in all so-
cietal decision-making. DIE LINKE works
for the right to vote and be elected for
all those who have the focus of their
lives in Germany, as well as equal rights
of access to the labour market. All child-
ren born here and whose parents live in
Germany should be given German citi-
zenship. Naturalisation must be made
easier again. Dual citizenship should be
possible as a matter of principle. DIE
LINKE is in favour of recognition of certi-
fied qualifications acquired abroad for all
migrant groups.
Persons who have fled human rights
violations, wars and political persecution
must not be turned away or deported.
We demand restoration of the funda-
mental right of asylum and we fight
against making refugees illegal, against
deportations, against every form of spe-
cial legislation such as restriction of
movement and against detention camps.
The closed doors policy of the EU is in-
human – we do not want Europe to be a
fortress. DIE LINKE bases its refugee
policy on humanity and human rights, so
that the protection of people in need is
in the foreground and not regulatory or
economic considerations. For that rea-
son DIE LINKE calls for abolition of the
border agency FRONTEX, which is the
EU’s main instrument for keeping people
out.
52 Democratisation of society
Anti-discrimination policy
DIE LINKE opposes any discrimination
based on sex, age, philosophy, religion,
ethnic origin, sexual orientation and
identity or based on any physical, mental
or psychological impairment. We want to
purposefully break down and overcome
all barriers – in mobility, in school or
vocational education, in occupation or in
communication – with the active in-
volvement of persons with disabilities
and their families. We want the diversity
of different forms of partnership to be
equally respected, honoured and pro-
tected. A paradigm shift in family policy
is urgently needed and calls for a new
concept of the family. In addition to mar-
ried parents, unmarried parents, pat-
chwork families and also partnerships of
lesbians, gays, bisexuals, intersexuals and
others who do not fit into the traditional
gender roles have to be recognised as
parents. DIE LINKE fights for an active
anti-discrimination policy, the legal
equality of lesbians, gays and those who
do not conform to the usual gender
roles, and the promotion of their civil
society structures.
Equality and justice for people with
disabilities
To make it possible for persons with
disabilities to share equally in the life of
society, measures to compensate for
disadvantages and the right to self-
representation at all levels are indis-
pensable. DIE LINKE stands for a policy
that respects and implements the rights
of persons with disabilities in all social
spheres. In all administrations, in the
municipalities, in the educational estab-
lishments, in the welfare and social assis-
tance institutions, in the health system,
in the political parties, associations, in-
terest groups and in business – the civil
rights to accessibility, freedom, equality,
participation, emancipation, inclusion
and solidarity must be enjoyed every-
where.
DIE LINKE works for freedom of devel-
opment of the personality and unre-
stricted participation of all people in our
society. Social(ist) policy leaves no one
out. We demand human rights for all:
persons with and without disabilities as
well as for men and women and for
people of all ethnic origins.
Left disability policy is seen as an enrich-
ing interdisciplinary task for all policy
fields and for all planning. It is not just a
question of appropriate legislative action
to create equality of opportunity, need-
related compensation for handicaps or
active anti-discrimination policy. We
want to help bring about a positive
awareness with appreciation of special
strengths and competences and promo-
tion of respectful interpersonal relations.
It is a question of protecting dignity and
justice, of autonomy and civil liberties, of
reducing prejudices. It is a question of
experiencing diversity. The full imple-
mentation of the UN Convention on the
Rights of Persons with Disabilities in our
country is the will and one of the goals
of DIE LINKE, its members and its elected
officials.
Combating neo-fascism and racism
We actively oppose neo-fascism, right-
wing populism, racism, anti-Semitism,
anti-Ziganism, Islamophobia, homopho-
bia and other forms of inhumanity. We
take an active part in democratic al-
liances and work together in civic
movements and citizens’ initiatives with
all those who take a stand against the
Democratisation of society 53
extreme right, right-wing populism and
racism. We struggle against neo-fascism,
right-wing populism and racism in the
streets and in political bodies. We de-
mand the prohibition of all organisations
of the extreme right; in doing so, we
realise that prohibition is no substitute
for public debate. We advocate an active
anti-discrimination policy and call for
more democracy, participation and civic
involvement at all levels.
DIE LINKE agrees with other democratic
forces that the struggle against neo-
fascism and racism is a struggle that has
to be waged everywhere in Germany
and always with the courage of one’s
convictions and publicly. We decisively
oppose racist-inspired violence and state
racism as well as everyday racism and
xenophobic positions from the centre of
society.
Anti-fascism is a basic stance of the DIE
LINKE party. For us it means repelling all
extreme right, right-wing populist and
racist ideologies, parties and move-
ments, combating all traditional and new
forms of anti-Semitism, confronting his-
torical revisionism and all ideologies that
are predicated on the inequality of hu-
man beings, and maintaining the politi-
cal, scientific and cultural heritage of the
anti-fascist movement.
DIE LINKE vehemently opposes the equ-
ation of left ideas with fascist thinking
through the totalitarianism doctrine and
extremism theory. Our vision of a peace-
ful, more just and democratic world can
in no way be compared with the inhu-
man world view of the (neo)fascists.
Equal rights for Danes, Frisians,
Sorbs, Sinti and Roma
The minorities living in Germany– Danes,
Frisians, Sinti and Roma and Sorbs –
must be able to articulate and realise
their specific claims and concerns on
terms of equality. Policy-makers have to
create framework conditions to ensure
the preservation and further develop-
ment of the identity, language and cul-
ture of the minorities. What is needed is
the formulation of the corresponding
federal policy principles, which must
culminate in an article of the Basic Law
in the medium term. DIE LINKE advo-
cates that the rights of these minorities,
and especially their right to self-
determination, be protected and their
representation and involvement in the
societal process of opinion-forming and
consensus-building be fostered. In the
Federal Republic, policy-making at the
federal and state level must at long last
be guided by internationally recognised
standards.
Participation from the start – Active
involvement of young people
We see the active participation of young
people in social decision-making
processes as an indispensable basis for
an emancipatory democracy. Young
people should be able to shape their
lives on their own responsibility and take
an active part in changing social relation-
ships. We give high priority to political
education to encourage democratic par-
ticipation, for example in the form of
youth parliaments or forums. These
must have powers and not just be for
show. We are committed to ensuring
that children and young people can
share in the decisions that affect them
54 Democratisation of society
and can take an active part in designing
youth and leisure facilities.
Ageing, actively and with dignity
Older people have a wealth of know-
ledge and interesting experiences behind
them. They want to shape their lives
individually and be active in the commu-
nity. After periods of gainful employment
they have to be able to live in a self-
determined and dignified manner. A
decent pension, good health care and an
age-appropriate living environment that
satisfies their increased need for security
are prerequisites for a new culture of age
and ageing. But age is more than
pension, health care, nursing and costs.
There must be a change in thinking in
the media, politics, the economy and
society addressing the whole day-to-day
life of an ageing society and the chal-
lenges of old age. We are counting on
the vibrant cohesion of the generations,
more social involvement and participa-
tion.
DIE LINKE will therefore support seniors’
representations in the federal states,
districts and municipalities so as to have
more resources and opportunities de-
veloped for mobility, encounters, coun-
selling and a good living environment for
elderly people. We advocate self-
determined living in old age and accessi-
ble forms of housing. We want to en-
courage elderly people to be active in
seniors’ clubs, leisure facilities and se-
niors’ academies, to make use of civic
associations, cultural-historical societies
and sports clubs and to be active in citi-
zens’ initiatives and political organisa-
tions. We consider it worthwhile to
shape solidarity more actively in discus-
sions between elderly people and ado-
lescents, in historical projects and in
cultural and sports events.
Culture for a society that is just and
open to dialogue
Cultural diversity and the arts in all their
manifestations are indispensable for a
vibrant democracy. For us on the left,
creating favourable conditions and scope
for their development is therefore an
essential part of our struggle for a dem-
ocratic and socially just society. Culture
belongs in the Basic Law as a national
policy objective.
DIE LINKE advocates a democratic cul-
ture in which all groups and milieus can
find and express their cultural identity.
All people should have the opportunity
to share in the cultural life and cultural
wealth of this society. This presupposes
cultural education from the beginning.
Access to education and culture, to tradi-
tional as well as to modern forms of
culture and communication is one of the
most important social issues of the 21st
century and substantially determines the
development possibilities of each indi-
vidual and of society as a whole. Culture
and cultural education are prerequisites
for emancipation.
We are committed to the preservation of
the public-sector funding of culture and
oppose the limitless liberalisation and
exploitation of cultural achievements
and the privatization and dismantling of
public infrastructure. We want to pre-
serve and promote the diversity of
agents of cultural production - from
public and free non-profit initiatives to
independent publishers, studios, agen-
cies and artistic production companies.
We want to promote cultural life in all
regions and milieus. We want good jobs
Democratisation of society 55
providing a secure livelihood in the field
of culture. Artists and all cultural workers
should be able to live from their work
and benefit from social security.
Through the arts, in the diversity of their
directions, the freedom of individuals
and their integration in society are im-
agined and experienced in all their in-
consistency. Because art is an important
factor in the great social debates, DIE
LINKE wants to secure and protect its
own worlds of the arts as autonomous
spaces, testing grounds and refuges. It
sees in new artistic trends stimuli for an
expanded understanding of the world
and society that need to be encouraged
to the greatest possible extent. And it
needs the ideas that come from artists.
DIE LINKE feels strong ties with all those
who take a critical view of this society an
insist on it being changed. We are open
to the various designs for another, de-
cent life and want to encourage libera-
tion outlooks.
People of different socio-cultural back-
grounds and different political cultures
converge in the DIE LINKE party. Their
experiences are an enrichment on the
way to a broad cultural understanding of
a new social left.
Culture is remembrance. Culture links
tradition and today. Only an awareness
of the cultural heritage gives rise to a
sophisticated conception of culture.
Consequently the basis for understand-
ing and tolerance lies in culture. DIE
LINKE will make its contribution to a
democratic culture of remembrance. We
want to be sure of the cultural history of
the formerly divided country in its Euro-
pean context.
Sport for everyone
DIE LINKE wants to expand the cultural
conditions that are necessary to make
sport possible as a part of personal de-
velopment. Sport performs an important
social function. DIE LINKE seeks to roll
back the commercialisation of sport for
the purposes of profit maximisation and
to enhance the teaching of such values
as tolerance, respect and fairness in
sport, sustainably improve school and
vocational school sports through quality
standards and teach children and ado-
lescents to find enjoyment in movement.
Violence and discriminations are to be
combated. Persons with and without
disabilities and irrespective of social,
ethnic, religious or sexual backgrounds
should have access to sport. DIE LINKE
promotes nature-compatible, manipula-
tion-free sport.
Churches and religious and philo-
sophical communities
DIE LINKE defends the right of all people
to commit to a philosophy or religion. It
calls for the protection of philosophical
and religious minorities. For us, secular-
ism means the necessary institutional
separation of church and state.
We face up to our historical responsibili-
ty and have drawn the lessons from the
wrongs committed against believers in
the GDR. As early as 1990 the PDS party
executive admitted its responsibility for
the misguided policy of the SED which
led to tragic fates, discrimination, suspi-
cion and helpless consternation and
asked believers, churches and religious
communities for reconciliation. Today
Christians are working in DIE LINKE
alongside members of other religious
communities as well as atheists for
56 Democratisation of society
common goals and values that have their
roots as much in the great religions as in
the ideas of the enlightenment and hu-
manism: social justice, freedom, altruism
and tolerance.
DIE LINKE respects the churches and
religious communities, their social activi-
ty and their independence. However,
fundamental rights and labour rights
must apply in the churches and religious
communities and their institutions as
well, including the right to strike and the
Works Constitution Act.
No one who does not profess a faith may
be disadvantaged in any way. We oppose
any political abuse of religion. Schools
should convey knowledge about reli-
gions and promote the mutual tolerance
of communities of belief. Classes must
be given within the context of the educa-
tional mission of the state by govern-
ment-recognised teachers and not be
influenced by churches or religious
communities.
.
57 Free access to education and knowledge
4.3 How do we want to do research and learn?
Free access to education and knowledge
Education is a human right. It should ena-
ble people individually and together with
others to lead a socially responsible and
self-determined life and take an active
part in shaping the development of socie-
ty. Such an emancipatory education re-
quires self-determination on the part of
the learner and promotes creativity, the
capacity to criticise and act, solidarity and
an awareness of history and politics. It
develops the skills needed to work on the
key social and global problems of humani-
ty. For us education is all-round personali-
ty development and must not be limited
to the acquisition of economically usable
knowledge. We work for a corresponding
about-face in education policy at the
European level as well.
Education for everyone
There is hardly another industrial country
where social origin has so great an influ-
ence on educational success as here. The
education system intensifies social ostrac-
ism instead of being integrative; educa-
tional privileges of the upper classes be-
come entrenched. We want to assert
inclusive education as a fundamental right
and establish an inclusive education sys-
tem in which all children and young
people learn together as long as possible
and are supported in the best possible
way.
Education must be free of charge. That
applies from early childhood education
through the school and vocational educa-
tion all the way to university. Education is
a public good and not a commodity. It
must be a public responsibility and public-
ly funded. We oppose privatisations in the
education sector because they heighten
injustices in education and weaken the
public educational institutions. Equal
education opportunities for all require
substantially better funding of the public
educational institutions and better co-
operation between the federal and state
governments. The possibilities children
and adolescents have of acquiring educa-
tion are determined by their living condi-
tions. Community living, leisure and
sports activities should be developed as a
public responsibility, should be accessible
to all and should be oriented towards the
well-being of children and adolescents.
Good learning conditions also require
good working conditions for teaching
personnel. Precarious employment, heavy
workloads, lack of time and poor wages,
however, are part of everyday life in many
areas of education. DIE LINKE is on the
side of the trade unions fighting for better
working conditions and good social pro-
tection for employees in education.
We stand for the democratisation of all
areas of education. Pupils, trainees and
students should be able to share in deci-
sion-making on the organisation of educa-
tion processes.
Good education from the daycare
centre to continuing education
We stand for a legal claim to all-day early
childhood education and care for all child-
ren regardless of the employment status
of the parents. To improve the quality of
support, we aspire to university-level
training for educators.
58 Free access to education and knowledge
The goal of our education policy is the
comprehensive school, an inclusive school
of joint learning that dispenses with the
division of learners.
Comprehensive schools have the ambi-
tion and develop the capacity to take all
children and adolescents, regardless of
their personal and social prerequisites, to
the best possible learning progress and
the highest possible school leaving certifi-
cate.
We demand a country-wide supply of
selectable training places. There must be
a solidarity-based levy on all companies
to help finance it. We want good training
allowances in all industries so that trai-
nees can cover their living costs indepen-
dently where possible. For us the dual
system is the core of vocational education
and training. We want to improve the
quality of training and are determined to
ensure that in the future employers, em-
ployees and government work toward
that goal on equal terms. Substantial co-
determination rights must be established
for trainees in companies, in the voca-
tional schools and on the job.
DIE LINKE wants to expand the universi-
ties and substantially increase the num-
ber of university students. This involves
opening up the universities to persons
with vocational qualifications as well. All
students must be allowed to decide on
their content priorities independently and
be given access to master's courses. Edu-
cation and research should form a unit.
Armaments research has no place at uni-
versities and research institutions; the
exertion of economic influence and utili-
sation interests must be curbed. DIE
LINKE is vehemently opposed to Bundes-
wehr recruitment in educational estab-
lishments, for example through youth
officers, simulation games and study ma-
terials. Instead, education and science
should be at the service of the people and
the social, ecological and peaceful devel-
opment of society. We want to win more
scope for critical science.
Learning does not end with the first job.
We want to expand continuing education
and life-long learning as a public respon-
sibility and a personal right. The compa-
nies must be made to bear more respon-
sibility for the further training of their
employees. At the same time we need
extensive public services that are accessi-
ble free of charge and include general,
cultural and political continuing educa-
tion.
We want to combat social inequalities in
vocational and continuing education by
means of structural reform of the training
promotion system up to and including
publicly funded adult education promo-
tion measures. All adults undergoing
training should in the case of personal
need receive support to meet that need
independent of their parents. It should be
granted without any repayment obliga-
tion and in future it should not be limited
to initial training.
Knowledge production and copyright
We want a development in science that
leads to greater social responsibility on
the part of scientists and users and that
enables more and more people to share
in its findings and results and incapacitate
its destructive forces. Private monopolies
on social knowledge are contrary to dem-
ocratic principles of free access to a
common good, the body of knowledge of
humanity. We therefore reject the privati-
sation of science institutions as well as of
libraries, museums, theatres and other
Free access to education and knowledge 59
places of science and culture. That in-
cludes using the sciences to conserve and
preserve the natural environment as well
as assessing the consequences of the use
of technology.
DIE LINKE works to promote the diversity
and freedom of the media and modern
means of communication and unrestric-
ted use of the Internet. All users must be
able to send and receive the data of their
choice. The neutrality of the web must be
assured and all people, poor or rich, ur-
ban or rural, must be given equal access
to the Internet. That is as much a public
responsibility as the promotion of freely
accessible (open source) software, the
limitation of digital property rights and
the safeguarding of large and universally
accessible bodies of digital knowledge.
We want to reinforce the rights of authors
vis-à-vis the collective rights agencies. DIE
LINKE works for the prohibition of con-
tracts in which all rights to exploit works
are assigned to a collective rights manag-
er without limitation of time or space for
a lump sum payment (total buy-out). We
advocate that binding remuneration rules
or authors' collective agreements be
reached if possible for all groups of au-
thors. We want the services of profes-
sional creative workers to be adequately
reimbursed and at the same time we
want to strike a balance so that non-
commercial use and creative re-working is
restricted as little as possible. We want to
further develop copyright law for the age
of the Internet in that spirit.
No patents on life
DIE LINKE advocates a world-wide ban on
patents on plants, animals, human beings
and other living things as well as on their
organs, genes and gene sequences and on
breeding and growing methods. We need
a corresponding amendment in interna-
tional agreements, e.g. the Agreement on
Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual
Property Rights (TRIPS) and the European-
level patent legislation (EPC).
DIE LINKE stands in solidarity with the
environmental, agricultural, development
aid and consumer protection organisa-
tions that oppose the increasing monopo-
lisation of seed and farm animals through
patents. A handful of profit-oriented cor-
porations are attempting to acquire the
most extensive possible protection by
patent world-wide, at the expense of the
general public, so that they can levy li-
censing fees for farming and breeding,
testing and processing methods, fodder
and foods – from farmers, market and
leisure gardeners, small and medium-
sized breeders, food processors and con-
sumers. At issue here is the global domi-
nation of the entire agricultural and food
sector, that is, the ultimate profit-making
opportunity for a few agricultural genetic
engineering corporations. Farmers and
gardeners are increasingly dependent on
them. Biopatents contribute to the reduc-
tion of biodiversity and a decline in plant
species and livestock breeds in agricul-
ture. Breeding progress and agricultural
research is increasingly being hindered by
biopatents.
DIE LINKE assesses biopatenting as a fun-
damental evil because it promotes biopi-
racy. Through patenting, researchers and
companies usurp the right to dispose of
genes that they may have discovered, but
certainly did not “invent”. This form of
“scientific colonialism” is devoid of any
ethical basis. It is hard for indigenous
peoples and developing countries in par-
ticular to defend themselves from this.
The genetic material of all living things on
this planet that has existed for millions of
60 Free access to education and knowledge
years belongs to no one. This form of
biopiracy must be prohibited.
Patents on life are tools of oppression and
profit increase. This is contrary to the
principles of a democratic socialist society.
Therefore there must be no patents on
life..
61 Socio-ecological reconstruction
4.4 How do we preserve nature and society?
Socio-ecological reconstruction
DIE LINKE sees socio-ecological restruc-
turing in Germany and Europe as one of
its key objectives and as a crucial multi-
sectoral task in all policy areas.
Every person has a universally equal
right to a share in what the earth has to
offer and a universally equal duty to
defend his or her own livelihood. The
equality of rights of use and the equality
of duties to defend must become the
model for global action. The European
Union and Germany must assume a
pioneering role internationally. It is a
matter not just of observing the obliga-
tions undertaken in the context of the
United Nations development goals to
alleviate poverty, hunger, child mortality,
illiteracy, underdevelopment and envi-
ronmental destruction but of leading the
way. That includes above all the socio-
ecological reconstruction of our society.
It is not just ecologically necessary, it is
also an ethical, social and economic
imperative. Our present mode of pro-
duction and consumption can never be
just, one reason being that it is too un-
ecological. And one reason it can never
be ecological is that it is unjust.
The goal of a significant reduction in
materials and energy turnover, which is
now generally accepted, will only be
achieved once the society has simulta-
neously become more social, more
democratic and more free. That is the
only way the development of new envi-
ronmentally friendly ways of life and a
new kind of prosperity can find accep-
tance. Social security, reliable and ade-
quate vocational and income prospects,
and less domination at work and in so-
ciety, are the basis for more interperson-
al relationships, health, education, cul-
ture and leisure. A happier society that
wastes less resources needs more equal-
ity. DIE LINKE by no means wants to
dictate particular ways of life; there are
many ecological lifestyles. The important
thing is that everyone's ecological foot-
print remains within the globally per-
missible bounds, that is, that it does not
exceed about one ton of carbon dioxide
per year. How it comes to be is a matter
of individual choice, but it is not the task
of the individual alone. The point is to
shape the general conditions in such a
way that a life without the need for a
great deal of resources becomes attrac-
tive to everyone.
Sustainable economics requires the re-
duction of the use of fossil resources by
90 per cent. A substantial reduction,
oriented on the fossil resources, is essen-
tial for other resources as well. DIE LINKE
wants the production of goods and ser-
vices to no longer have profit as its top
priority but instead to be oriented to-
wards socio-ecological objectives. The
combination of ecological governance
with more social justice and with the
expansion of prospects of personal ful-
filment will be crucial. If ecological go-
vernance makes the use of environmen-
tal resources more expensive, through a
carbon tax for example, the less well-off
must benefit disproportionately from the
ensuing revenues, either through direct
payments or through the extension of
public services.
An economy oriented toward socio-
ecological objectives does not aspire to
62 Socio-ecological reconstruction
growth for the sake of growth. An in-
creasing gross domestic product does
not automatically lead to greater pros-
perity. Socio-ecological reconstruction
means relieving society and the econo-
my of the pressure for growth that re-
sults from excessive profit orientation
and unjust, oppressive relationships.
High inequality in the distribution of
income, wealth and working hours, ex-
cessive indebtedness of public budgets
and inadequate safeguards in the social
security systems against life's risks are
obstacles to turning away from the
growth fixation. Seigneurial and highly
competitive living and working condi-
tions promote ecologically and socially
questionable economic activities and
consumer behaviour.
We want to orient all policy areas to-
wards the socio-ecological restructuring
of the economy and society. These in-
clude in particular economic and finance
policy, social and education policy,
science, research and technology policy
and infrastructural and regional policy,
but peace policy and transport policy as
well.
Climate protection and energy tur-
naround
DIE LINKE associates the conversion of
the energy industry with decentralised
energy generation and supply structures.
This must lead to the democratisation of
the energy industry, promote citizen
participation and contribute to the re-
duction of carbon emissions. In the long
run, this will result in a secure, environ-
mentally benign, import-independent
and affordable energy supply.
DIE LINKE is in favour of a fifty per cent
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in
Germany by 2020 compared to 1990,
without preconditions. We want to work
toward a reduction by at least 90 per
cent by mid-century. Our aim is an ener-
gy supply that is 100 per cent from re-
newable sources, predominantly ex-
hausting the regionally usable sources,
by 2050. We will achieve this by means
of defined threshold values for carbon
emissions and not through market-based
emission trading. In that way jobs can be
created in the regions and the municipal
budgets can be lastingly strengthened.
The use of biomass from renewable
resources to generate energy is justifia-
ble only if total self-sufficiency in food
and feed as well as industrial raw mate-
rials from agriculture is guaranteed. We
reject the import of biomass resulting
from predatory exploitation and mono-
culture. The use of biomass for energy
must not lead to a rise in food prices and
must be done in a sustainable manner.
The Renewable Energies Act is a success-
ful piece of restructuring legislation. We
advocate its preservation and expansion,
one reason being to ensure the priority
feed-in of renewable energy. The costs
for the levy, pegged to ecological suc-
cess, must, however, be borne primarily
by heavy consumers in industry and
private households. Base usage must
remain affordable for everyone and be
financed by the extra payment made by
the heavy consumers.
We demand the immediate decommis-
sioning of all nuclear power plants and
the prohibition of nuclear technology
exports. The prohibition of all use,
peaceful or military, of nuclear energy
must be inscribed in the Basic Law. The
search for a permanent disposal site
must be open-ended and transparent,
the population must be involved, and
Socio-ecological reconstruction 63
the nuclear waste must be stored in
places with the least risk at the expense
of the originator.
We want to prevent the construction of
new coal-fired power plants and the
underground storage of carbon dioxide.
The use of coal must become so expen-
sive that it is uneconomical to operate
existing and plan new coal-fired power
plants.
Improved energy efficiency as a part of
the energy turnaround applies to all
areas of society. Above all, there is great
potential for optimising energy con-
sumption in buildings. Renovation
measures that are not refinanced by
lower energy costs must be subsidised.
The costs must be covered not by the
tenants but from the profits of the ener-
gy industry. We therefore demand the
transformation of the energy corpora-
tions into public property and democrat-
ic control of the enterprises with the
objective of achieving ecologically re-
sponsible management of energy and
socially responsible funding of the con-
version measures.
To improve the energy efficiency of elec-
trical appliances, we want to introduce
legal regulations guaranteeing that the
standards of the appliances using the
least energy and resources throughout
their entire life cycle are made binding
within a short time. Ease of repair should
be included in the evaluation as a further
criterion. This arrangement should be
applied to other products as well.
The research funds and subsidies that
have been used up to now for nuclear
power, including nuclear fusion, and
fossil energy systems are to be diverted
to the expansion of renewable energy
systems and storage methods, the im-
provement of energy efficiency and the
expansion and regulation of the grids.
Particular support needs to be given to
the conversion of the grid infrastructure
with a high proportion of fluctuating
renewable energy, for example through
the integration of power/heat co-
generation.
Nature is our life
One person's use of nature is denial of
use to the other. Whoever demands
constant growth endangers the elemen-
tary right of others to development.
Sustainable handling of natural re-
sources is not an annoying cost factor
but opens the door to a more liveable
future. We want to preserve natural
habitats in Germany, Europe and the
world. Biological diversity must be pre-
served for its own sake and as the foun-
dation of our life. This involves preserv-
ing and protecting the remaining large
natural habitats on this earth as well as
cross-linking protected areas. Forests,
seas and landscapes should be used and
protected as a public responsibility in
such a way that their natural regenera-
tive capacity is retained. The assignment
of protected areas to private persons is
not conducive to the attainment of that
goal. We aspire to more democratic
planning, control and veto rights for
environmental organisations and citi-
zens. We advocate retaining the natural
courses of rivers to serve as protection
from floods as well as to preserve the
typical animal and plant species and the
aesthetic value of the meadow land-
scapes.
We want to counteract the progressive
sealing of landscapes for expanding set-
tlement and traffic areas through greater
64 Socio-ecological reconstruction
internal development of urban areas,
reduced distances between homes and
workplaces and the expansion of local
public transport. The change in settle-
ment structure must correlate with a
changed price structure. Housing, com-
merce and trade in the inner area can be
subsidised, for example, with the
proceeds of a sealing tax. What is de-
sired must be made easier and what is
undesirable must be made harder to
obtain, without restricting the options of
poorer people. Inner city rents and
property prices must have upper limits
so that green-field housing develop-
ments and shopping malls lose their
attractiveness.
We stand for the protection of animals
living in the wild and in the care of hu-
mans, and especially for species-
appropriate husbandry of farm animals
and the discontinuation of animal expe-
riments. We promote a marked increase
in organic farming and demand that all
farms operate ecologically. To achieve
that we want organic farming, like rege-
nerative energy production, to be syste-
matically paid preferential prices, funded
perhaps by levies on non-organic pro-
duction. That will make it possible for
everyone to buy organic foods.
Although it is now a national policy ob-
jective, we are still very far from effective
prevention of cruelty to animals. We
stand for a country-wide right of class
action for animal welfare associations.
Social legislation should facilitate appro-
priate animal husbandry. Transporting
animals, breeding them and keeping
them in zoos has to be subject to stricter
conditions and democratic control. DIE
LINKE advocates an animal welfare seal
on foods. We reject agricultural genetic
engineering owing to the incalculable
risks involved. Mandatory labelling
should start at the technically feasible
detection limit. We reject animal and
plant patents.
Mobility for all – ecological traffic
turnaround
Sustainable infrastructure development
relies on traffic avoidance, short dis-
tances and energy-saving means of
transport. The satisfaction of fundamen-
tal mobility needs with the least possible
harm to the environment must be guar-
anteed for all, irrespective of their ability
to pay. It is an essential part of public
services of general interest. Our goal is a
country-wide, wheelchair-accessible
public transport system with attractively
frequent service, good transfer facilities
and socially acceptable fares. We see
free local public transit as a vision that
we want to work towards in the long
term. Local and long-distance public
transit must be regulated and operated
co-operatively and democratically with
the involvement of representatives of
the interests of the passengers, em-
ployees, environmental associations and
other persons concerned.
The Deutsche Bahn must be subject to
broader democratic control. We reject
the privatisation of public transport
companies. The long-term goal is a rail
transport sector exclusively under public
influence. The federal government has to
ensure the maintenance and requisite
extension of the railway lines to the ful-
lest extent and provide the states with
adequate funds on a permanent basis
for transportation services and expan-
sion of the infrastructure in local public
transport. We reject the establishment
of a competing overland bus network.
Socio-ecological reconstruction 65
Citizens and special interest groups must
be included by the planning authorities
from the beginning and more thoroughly
in the planning of traffic projects, and
referenda must be made possible at an
early stage.
We want a thorough reform of the Fed-
eral German Transport Plan up to and
including environmentally friendly mobil-
ity planning. The backbone of our mobil-
ity concept is the Environmental Grid –
walking, cycling, bus and train. We want
to increase substantially the proportion
of routes travelled in the Environmental
Grid and reduce private motorised traf-
fic. In development planning we stand
for short distances between the places
of residence, leisure, work and education
as well as for a settlement structure that
is amenable to pedestrian and cyclist
traffic. We want to achieve a significant
improvement in the quality of life
through the rededication of traffic areas:
local recreation instead of noise and
exhaust pollution.
We are opposed to the expansion of the
autobahn and road network. We are in
favour of a general autobahn speed limit
of 120 km/h. Electric cars and biofuel are
no solution to the problems that arise
from energy and resource consumption,
traffic jams and accidents.
As much as possible of German domestic
air travel and a large part of air travel
within Europe is to be shifted to rail. The
first steps in that direction are the intro-
duction of a uniform EU kerosene tax
and an international air ticket tax. The
subsidisation of airports must end.
Goods traffic must be substantially re-
duced, with the external costs being
added to transport prices. Higher taxes
on oil and a binding HGV road user fee
throughout Europe are means to that
end. We want to shift the remaining
goods traffic from road primarily to rail
and to environmentally friendly sea and
inland waterway transport. We want to
promote drives that are easy on re-
sources and the environment by means
of a fossil fuel tax that applies world-
wide if possible and otherwise Europe-
wide. Through co-operation instead of
competition between port locations we
can direct flows of goods in a targeted
manner and make optimum use of the
existing capacities and infrastructure. A
modernised inland waterway fleet is
used in a goal-oriented way, uses mea-
ningful innovations and does not require
any further expansion of rivers.
Investing in the traffic infrastructure
must be done in a much more sustaina-
ble way and with a view to accessibility.
Pollution and hazards to the health of
many people resulting from traffic noise
and airborne pollutants such as particu-
late matter and nitrogen oxides must be
reduced. Traffic noise from existing
roadways and airports must be substan-
tially reduced by means of strict thre-
shold values and active noise control. We
advocate a ban on night flights.
Regional economic cycles
We want to make the transition to re-
gional, job-creating economic and ma-
terial cycles. For that purpose we need
not only self-administered regional de-
velopment funds, a different municipal
income distribution system and structur-
al and start-up aid but also a decentra-
lised food production and energy supply
and higher transport prices. Other areas
of the public services of general interest,
such as water/sewage, waste disposal,
health and culture have to be decentra-
66 Socio-ecological reconstruction
lised and regionally organised where
possible.
We advocate the rigorous conversion of
the waste disposal industry into an ener-
gy-efficient resource industry. For that
purpose the Recycling Act needs to be
developed further in the direction of
heightened re-use, higher recycling quo-
tas and stricter requirements. The export
of waste must be prohibited. The goal is
the compatibility of man-made and nat-
ural cycles. That is, the use of raw mate-
rials and chemical products is admissible
only to the extent that it does not over-
burden natural processes and sinks.
67 Democracy, the welfare state, ecology and peace
4.5 How do we want to radically remodel the
European Union?
Democracy, the welfare state, ecology and peace
The European Union influences the life
of citizens in all member states directly
and to an increasing extent. Decisions of
the European Parliament, the European
Council, consisting of the heads of state
and government of the member states,
the Council of the European Commission
and the European Court of Justice sub-
stantially affect the living conditions, the
day-to-day life of people in the Federal
Republic of Germany. The decisions
adopted at the EU level are of crucial
importance for safeguarding peace, for
economic and social development and
for solving the ecological challenges on
the continent and beyond. That being so,
left policy in Germany now more than
ever must take the European dimension
into consideration and make suggestions
of its own for shaping European policy.
The European Union is an indispensable
political activity level for DIE LINKE.
Together with other left political parties,
we stand for a fundamental change of
policy in the European Union. We want a
different, a better EU. The European
Union must become a truly democratic,
social, ecological and peaceful union.
The current European Union treaty bases
are not suitable for that purpose. For
that reason we rejected the Lisbon Trea-
ty. Our criticism was and still is directed
above all against the assertions con-
tained in the text of that treaty about
the militarisation of EU security and
defence policy, against the fundamental
orientation of the EU on the standards of
neo-liberal policy, against the absence of
a welfare state clause, against the kind of
intensified police and security service co-
operation aspired to, and against the
persisting democratic deficit in the EU
and its institutions.
The euro crisis delivered further proof
that the EU treaties are of no benefit for
a democratic, social, ecological and
peaceful Europe but on the contrary
help to exacerbate the crisis.
The European Union needs a new start
with a complete revision of the basic
elements of EU primary legislation,
which are militaristic, undemocratic and
neo-liberal. We therefore continue to
work for a constitution that is co-
designed by the citizens and on which
they can vote in a referendum held si-
multaneously in all EU member states.
We want nothing less than a radical
change in the policy of the European
Union that places European integration
on a new foundation in the interests of
the vast majority of the people.
We want a European Union that does
not sacrifice democracy and nation-state
sovereignty to the financial markets. We
reject all attacks on democracy in Eu-
rope, for example through the estab-
lishment of rights of intervention in na-
tion-state budgets.
We want a peaceful European Union
that outlaws war in the spirit of the
United Nations Charter, that is structural-
ly incapable of aggression and is free of
68 Democracy, the welfare state, ecology and peace
weapons of mass destruction, that fore-
goes both the build-up of military power
and world-wide military operational
capability and world-wide military oper-
ations. We believe in disarmament, civil
co-operation and the development of
relations based on partnership in Europe
and world-wide.
We want a European Union without
exclusion and poverty, an EU in which
well-paid and socially secure work guar-
antees a life in dignity for everyone. The
welfare state must be among the values
and aims of the EU and have the highest
priority when any EU policies are being
implemented. DIE LINKE advocates that
a social progress clause be anchored in
EU primary legislation. Just as competi-
tion is controlled in the EU, the obser-
vance of social provisions must be moni-
tored EU-wide and infringements must
not go unpunished. To prevent tax
dumping, in addition to harmonisation
of the corporate tax base, DIE LINKE
demands that an EU-wide adequately
high minimum tax rate be determined
for corporate profits.
We want a European Union whose legal
foundations are economically neutral in
their formulation and are open to a
mixed economy with a significant public
sector as well as future social develop-
ments. The economic policy of the EU
should promote social progress and
ecological structural change. That will
necessitate more public investments and
the strengthening of the domestic econ-
omy. The Stability and Growth Pact must
be replaced by a pact for sustainable
development, full employment, social
security and environmental protection
that includes foreign trade stability
measures as well. The EU needs a coor-
dinated and democratically controlled
economic policy to counter any attempt
to undercut the competition by curtail-
ing wages, working conditions, social
benefits and environmental standards.
The European Central Bank must be
democratically controlled and its action
must be directed towards not just price
stability but also employment and sus-
tainable development.
We want a Common European Agricul-
tural Policy that is consistently socially
and ecologically oriented and gives
greater consideration to the interests of
the developing countries. Primary agri-
cultural production enterprises, regard-
less of size and farming method, must
receive support for social and ecological
performance so as to reduce the influ-
ence of non-farming capital.
We want a European Union that acts
world-wide to have the financial markets
subjected to strict control so that they
return to serving the general interest and
stop encouraging speculation. It must be
made possible to control capital move-
ments Europe-wide. The EU needs a
public institution to grant the govern-
ments loans without having to go
through private commercial banks.
We want a European Union with a strong
European Parliament and transparent
decision-making processes in all Euro-
pean institutions and more direct in-
volvement of the citizens. The human
and fundamental rights that belong to
the constitutional traditions in Europe
must have priority over the fundamental
freedoms of the domestic market in
European policy.
We want a European Union where
women and men are truly equal in rights
and where discrimination against people
Democracy, the welfare state, ecology and peace 69
because of their ethnic origin, gender,
religion or world view, a disability, age or
sexual identity is out of the question. We
want women to finally have the same
opportunities in occupation and society
as men. This requires legal measures, for
example to secure child care and to
combat wage discrimination.
We want a solidarity-based expansion of
the European Union in which all issues –
especially incentive and investment poli-
cy – are approached in such a way that
the regions co-operate as partners and
the focus is on improving working and
living conditions. In the EU budget, the
requisite funds must be made available
through redistribution of funds as well as
by increasing the financial contributions
of the member states.
We want a European Union in which the
rule of law, freedom and security are
guaranteed and the war on crime is not
waged at the expense of fundamental
and human rights. The EU must commit
itself to the principle of separation of
powers and the separation of police,
secret services and armed forces. The
fundamental right to asylum must be
guaranteed. The FRONTEX border agen-
cy must therefore be dissolved. Neo-
fascism, xenophobia, racism, religious
fundamentalism, sexism and homopho-
bia must be outlawed throughout Eu-
rope.
We want a European Union that as part
of the one world promotes international
relations on equal terms, aspires to a
solidarity-based world economy and
fulfils its responsibility for resolving
global problems.
These principles will be the basis of all
our political work.
The Left in Europe is called upon to take
up the fight for the European Union.
Another Europe, an EU that uses its for-
mative potential in the interest of mil-
lions of people all over the world, is
possible – if we succeed in changing the
policy and development of the European
Union, orienting it toward peace and
non-military conflict resolution, toward
democracy, toward overcoming pa-
triarchy, toward social security and eco-
logical sustainability in an economy that
serves the people. This other Europe can
be crucial in helping to make another
world possible.
DIE LINKE will contribute to having the
battles against neo-liberal policy in the
municipalities, regions and member
states increasingly fought at the EU level
as well. We shall defend our European
policy approaches in protests against the
policy of the European Union and the
member states just as we do in the par-
liaments at all levels. We want to win
people over with convincing concrete
projects and encourage them to partici-
pate in politics again. That is how we can
attain our political goal of a democratic,
social, ecological and peaceful reshaping
of the foundations of the European Un-
ion. That is how we shall prevent neo-
fascists and racists in the EU member
states from gaining support for their
dehumanising ideologies.
70 Disarmament, collective security and joint development
4.6 How do we bring about peace?
Disarmament, collective security and joint
development
DIE LINKE is an internationalist peace
party that stands for non-violence, be it
within societies or between states. From
this we derive our commitment to op-
pose war, breaches of international law,
human rights violations and military
patterns of thought in dealing with con-
flicts. In addition to criticising the prota-
gonists of violence and the violence-
promoting power structures, we are
interested in enlightening people about
deeper interconnections between the
causes of conflicts. Together with peace
movements and all peace-oriented part-
ners, we are struggling to find pathways
to structural violence prevention and
non-military conflict behaviour. Our guid-
ing principle is the idea of a just peace,
which means more than just the absence
of violence, because it regards socially as
well as economically and ecologically
sustainable conditions as the precondi-
tion for lasting peaceful development.
DIE LINKE bases its internationalist policy
on four principles: peace through collec-
tive and mutual security, disarmament
and structural offensive incapacity; a
solidarity-based policy to overcome po-
verty, underdevelopment and environ-
mental destruction; action for a demo-
cratic, social, ecological and peaceful
European Union; reforming and streng-
thening the United Nations.
Peace in solidarity in place of wars
For DIE LINKE, war is not a policy instru-
ment. We call for the dissolution of
NATO and its replacement with a collec-
tive security system with the participa-
tion of Russia that has disarmament as a
crucial goal. Irrespective of any decision
on Germany remaining in NATO, DIE
LINKE will advocate in any political con-
stellation that Germany withdraw from
the military structures of the military
alliance and that the Bundeswehr be
withdrawn from the NATO high com-
mand. We call for an immediate end to
all combat operations of the Bundes-
wehr. That includes German participa-
tion in UN mandated military operations
under Chapter VII of the United Nations
Charter as well, especially since the Se-
curity Council has never adopted resolu-
tions pursuant to the Charter against
aggressors such as NATO in the case of
the war in Yugoslavia or the USA in the
war in Iraq. To gain acceptance for the
militarisation of foreign policy, there is
increasing talk of "civilian/military co-
operation" and concepts of "intercon-
nected security". DIE LINKE rejects the
coupling of military with civilian meas-
ures. It does not want non-military aid to
be instrumentalised for military purpos-
es. It wants to have a an arms export ban
inscribed in the Basic Law.
Reforming and strengthening the
United Nations
As an internationalist political party DIE
LINKE regards international law and the
United Nations as the most important
institution for peaceful understanding
among the states and societies of the
Disarmament, collective security and joint development 71
Earth. Humanity can only meet the glob-
al challenges peacefully, in dialogue and
multilaterally on the basis of a legal
framework that continues to develop
consensually. The United Nations must
be brought back to the basis of its own
Charter. Issues and challenges of poverty,
climate change, mass diseases, wars,
nutrition, water supply, energy security,
regulated globalisation and equitable
trade structures are topics for everyone.
they can be dealt with and brought clos-
er to solution only in global interaction.
The central task of the United Nations
continues to be safeguarding world
peace, that is, prevention, dispute set-
tlement and sustainable non-military
conflict resolution on the basis of inter-
national law. That end is served in par-
ticular by the principles of non-violence
and equal security, plus the rules of
peaceful conflict resolution in com-
pliance with the spirit and letter of the
Charter. This requires the reform that is
long overdue, encompassing greater
rights for the UN, greater economic
rights, greater effectiveness of the UN
agencies and better legitimisation of the
UN Security Council. In particular, strong
representation of the African and Latin
American states is lacking. It is also ne-
cessary to enshrine greater rights for the
larger General Assembly. But regional
organisations such as the OSCE can also
make specific contributions to attaining
the goals of the Charter.
Disarmament and structural offen-
sive incapacity
Instead of armament, military operations
abroad and EU/NATO partnership, i.e.
the logic of war, we need to revert to a
peaceful foreign and security policy that
strictly adheres to the prohibition of the
use of force in international relations
contained in the United Nations Charter.
DIE LINKE therefore stands for disarma-
ment and arms control and demands the
strict prohibition of arms exports and the
conversion of military forces on the basis
of purely defensive potentialities. The EU
and Germany must give up all nuclear
weapons options; all nuclear weapons
deployed in Germany have to be re-
moved and completely destroyed. All
weapons of mass destruction have to be
banned. The European Union should be
in the vanguard of non-military conflict
prevention and create the capacities
required. A military/civilian European
Foreign Service, participation in military
operations in the context of the Com-
mon Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP)
and the European Security and Defence
Policy (ESDP) as well as EU battle groups
and EU armed forces for intervention
therefore have to be rejected. DIE LINKE
is against the militarisation of the EU.
DIE LINKE opposes the conversion of the
Bundeswehr into an army of warfare to
be deployed world-wide. DIE LINKE
works for the gradual disarmament of
the Bundeswehr; the most warfare-
capable components should be disarmed
first. Disarmament has to be accompa-
nied by a conversion programme for the
arms production employees, for the
soldiers and for the real assets of the
Bundeswehr.
DIE LINKE pursues the long-range goal of
a Germany and a Europe without armies,
a world without wars. The Basic Law
prohibits the preparation of and partici-
pation in wars of aggression. War must
never again emanate from German soil:
that precept must be enforced once
again. The Bundeswehr must be brought
72 Disarmament, collective security and joint development
back from all operations abroad, their
deployment inside the country beyond
necessary disaster relief has to be strictly
prohibited, the emergency laws provid-
ing for and enabling the deployment of
the Bundeswehr inside the country have
to be repealed. Instead of the expeditio-
nary force DIE LINKE wants humanitarian
aid. We want the billions that up to now
have been spent on wars used for aid in
dealing with international crises and
disasters. Effective disaster control re-
quires trained helpers: not military but
doctors, engineers and scientists. We
therefore propose the establishment of a
civil task force – the Willy Brandt Corps
for International Disaster Relief. It is the
peaceful alternative to the expeditionary
force.
DIE LINKE demands an end to the partic-
ipation of federal and state police in
international police operations in sup-
port of wars and authoritarian regimes.
Military counselling missions must also
be ended. DIE LINKE calls for the estab-
lishment of a civilian disaster response
service with its own non-military re-
sources under the umbrella of the Unit-
ed Nations. Germany should act at the
international level for a UN-led interna-
tional disaster relief corps. The Willy
Brandt Corps should be lastingly inte-
grated into it.
All foreign military bases in Germany
must be closed down. It is not permissi-
ble for the infrastructure in the German
Federal Republic to be used to facilitate
wars contravening international law and
violations of human rights such as the
extraordinary rendition of prisoners.
International co-operation and soli-
darity
Our goal is a solidarity-based world eco-
nomic order that creates sustainable
development prospects for the poorer
countries and asserts global and social,
ecological and democratic rights instead
of fostering competition for shares in
world-wide export markets. Direct in-
vestments and transnational corpora-
tions must be subjected to strict rules
and controls. Compliance with social and
ecological standards must be guaran-
teed. International institutions must be
democratised.
Solidarity-based development and peace
are interdependent. Public development
co-operation amounting to at least 0.7
per cent of the gross domestic product
must finally be provided as already
agreed on decades ago. Those countries
in particular that are most affected by
underdevelopment, disintegration of the
state and civil war must be streng-
thened. Measures such as debt relief, a
rapid increase in development aid, sup-
port in building efficient public services,
especially in the fields of education,
health and services of general interest as
well as democratic constitutional struc-
tures and appropriate transfer of tech-
nology can contribute to that objective.
The socio-ecological restructuring of the
21st century will only succeed if it is
global and solidarity-based. Simply avert-
ing a climate catastrophe, in the estima-
tion of experts, will take an annual 100
billion dollars or thereabouts in assis-
tance to the South from the North – in
addition to the long overdue allocation
of 0.7 per cent of the gross domestic
product of the rich countries to devel-
opment aid. DIE LINKE demands that the
Disarmament, collective security and joint development 73
Federal Republic and the European Un-
ion make their contribution at the neces-
sary level to combating poverty and
adapting to climate change in the devel-
oping countries as well as to limiting it
without any preconditions. Environmen-
tal technologies should be made availa-
ble to the developing countries at no
cost to them or on the most favourable
special conditions. We strongly oppose
any relocation of energy-intensive and
resource-intensive production from the
North to the South.
Development policy must strengthen
South-South relations as well as regional
markets and smallholder production,
promote the processing of raw materials
in the developing countries, ensure fair
prices on the world markets, favour
gender justice as a development policy
priority and foster education for girls and
women. Speculation with foodstuffs
should be prevented through regulation
of the financial markets and the estab-
lishment of regional reserves. Agricultur-
al raw material imports for generating
biofuel must be ruled out. We are
against subsidising exports to the devel-
oping countries and are in favour of
helping them ensure their food sove-
reignty. Energy partnerships between
the EU and countries in the global South
should be organised in the interest of
joint entry into the energy turnaround.
Projects that hinder the overcoming of
poverty, underdevelopment and envi-
ronmental degradation must be stopped.
74 Together for a policy change and a better society
5. Together for a policy change and a better society
DIE LINKE has begun to change the bal-
ance of political power in the Federal
Republic of Germany. It helps ensure
that the struggles for higher wages, a
public future investment programme,
free higher education, social security, a
sustainable energy policy and protection
of the natural environment, democracy
and peace are waged with renewed
vigour. Today politics can no longer be
controlled by a cartel of neo-liberal par-
ties.
DIE LINKE stands in fundamental social
and political opposition to neo-liberalism
and the rule of capital, imperialist policy
and war. It fights for a democratic and
social, emancipatory and peaceful socie-
ty. By mobilising for social resistance and
taking action for a fundamental restruc-
turing, we are setting out for a socialist
society. In doing so we are taking up the
welfare-state, constitutional and demo-
cratic achievements and ecological regu-
lations that have already been attained
in the social and political struggles of the
past. We want to develop them further
and take them as the starting-point for
more far-reaching changes.
The core strategic task of DIE LINKE is to
help bring about a change in the balance
of power in society so that the restruc-
turing of society based on solidarity and
a left democratic, social, ecological and
peaceful policy will prevail. We aspire to
a change in the relations of power and
property. For that purpose it will be ne-
cessary to generate solidarity among
wage-earners, from the core personnel
to the unemployed and precariously
employed. One important task of DIE
LINKE is to underscore their common
interests. The traditional labour move-
ment with its combination of trade un-
ion and political mass organisations,
educational and cultural associations,
consumer cooperatives, women’s and
youth organisations and its deep roots in
the working-class residential areas has
largely dissolved. That makes it difficult
to mobilise large mass movements
against social cutbacks and de-
democratisation and for left alternatives.
Yet we are experiencing conflicts that
can engender a new class consciousness.
The emergence and assertion of class
power requires trade union and political
organisations in which common interests
are formulated and struggles are waged
for their assertion. It is the task of the
DIE LINKE party to promote that process
consciously and actively.
Broad left alliances
DIE LINKE sees itself as a learning party.
It wants to shape policy together with
the citizens. We know that we cannot
make our ideas of a better society come
true alone or in opposition to social ma-
jorities. We want to campaign with the
better argument, in a public, transpa-
rent, cultured and democratic fashion; to
take up concepts from the midst of our
society, develop our own, and gain broad
majorities in that society. A change in
political direction cannot be achieved at
the parliamentary level alone. It can only
succeed in the interplay of political ar-
guments in the extra-parliamentary and
parliamentary spheres.
Social and political change must grow
out of society and be supported by large
Together for a policy change and a better society 75
numbers of people. So we are fighting
for a broad societal alliance against neo-
liberalism and capital rule and for a left
democratic, social, ecological and peace-
ful policy for restructuring society in
solidarity.
That alliance should appeal to both
wage-earners and socially disadvantaged
persons and to the threatened middle
class and other libertarian, humanitarian
and socially oriented milieus. We pro-
ceed from the common interests of
people who are employed, unemployed
or discriminated against in Germany and
on a European and international scale
and their concrete problems.
We want an alliance of trade unions,
initiatives critical of globalisation, socio-
critical initiatives, social movements,
progressive people in the sciences and
culture, and the left in party politics. We
support alliances against neo-fascism,
racism, anti-Semitism and Islamophobia
and want to work with all those who
campaign for social justice, better educa-
tion, emancipation and more democracy,
peace and the conservation of nature.
To bring about a change in political direc-
tion and solidarity-based restructuring
we need strong, active, militant trade
unions operating independently of polit-
ical parties. They do not act only in civil
society but are anchored in the world of
work as well. That gives the union-
organised employees a position of social
power that is of crucial importance for
bringing about social and socialist trans-
formations. Social movements with their
mobile, campaign-capable networks and
independent structures are also of out-
standing importance in bringing about
social changes.
Proceeding from its function as a left
political party, DIE LINKE brings its own
competencies into political alliances and
supports them with its resources. As a
party we take up the concerns and activ-
ities of our political partners and per-
form our own functions. We encourage
our members to take an active part in
the work of trade unions, social organi-
sations, initiatives, projects and anti-
globalisation movements.
We want to encourage people to take a
stand against policies inimical to their
interests, with demonstrations, petitions
and civil disobedience as well as with
such instruments as the political strike
and the general strike. As other Euro-
pean countries have shown, such strikes
are among the most effective forms of
struggle to set limits to the rulers and to
capital and to force through changes.
We will work with other left forces on
key alternative projects for starting social
development in a new direction and will
strongly support them. Such projects
grow out of present-day social and polit-
ical conflicts and must be developed in
public discussions and in actions by the
most diverse forces. We see the coupling
of democratic and social protest,
present-day political decision-making
and the development of long-range
reform alternatives as a strategic chal-
lenge.
Confronting neo-liberal ideology
DIE LINKE counters neo-liberal ideology
with alternative positions offering a dif-
ferent path of development. We want to
link these with the experiences and con-
flicts in the enterprises, in the municipal-
ities and in everyday life and present
them in a popular and assertive manner
76 Together for a policy change and a better society
in public debates. We see the aggrava-
tion of economic, ecological and social
problems primarily as the result of neo-
liberal-inspired answers to the new chal-
lenges under the influence of capital
interests and as an expression of the
crisis processes and inconsistencies
brought forth by the capitalist economy.
DIE LINKE exposes the inconsistency
between the micro-economic perspec-
tive and the perspective of society as a
whole. What is needed is critical debate,
public relations work and actions, wide-
ranging education work and involvement
in networks and participation in scientific
and media discussions.
Work in parliaments, representative
assemblies and governments
Parliamentary and extra-parliamentary
political work are inseparable for DIE
LINKE. We defend our alternative reform
projects in elections and political strug-
gles and want to win over majorities to
put them into effect. We organise our
parliamentary work in such a way that it
facilitates co-operation with extra-
parliamentary left forces and public
presentation of our own reform propos-
als and thus in the end the development
of new power relations in society and
political majorities. We strive to make
political processes transparent and want
to expose and prevent the abuse of po-
litical power.
Both parliamentary opposition and par-
ticipation in governments are means for
DIE LINKE to take political action and
shape society. The success of our politi-
cal actions is measured by how we
struggle to improve the situation of the
disadvantaged, develop and implement
left and reform projects, change power
relations and usher in a change in policy.
We enter into parliamentary alliances
with other political forces whenever they
foster the change in the direction of
politics and society that we aspire to. We
take the various opportunities for politi-
cal action at the local, state, federal and
European levels into account in our poli-
cy. But it is the federal level that is crucial
for bringing about a change in policy. It is
there that most of the competencies
required for that purpose are to be
found and most of the agendas are set.
The precondition for the appeal, backing
and success DIE LINKE enjoys is our cre-
dibility before and after the elections.
DIE LINKE must be recognisable by its
programmatic profile and its basic posi-
tions of substance in all political constel-
lations. We want another policy and are
fighting for hegemony in the public dis-
cussion. The participation of DIE LINKE in
governments only makes sense if it can
bring about a shift away from the neo-
liberal policy model and the beginning of
a change of socio-economic direction.
DIE LINKE seeks participation in govern-
ment when it will enable us to improve
people's living conditions. In that way
the political power of DIE LINKE and the
social movements can be enhanced and
the feeling of helplessness and lack of
alternatives that many people have can
be assuaged. Participation in govern-
ment has to be discussed in the light of
the specific conditions at the time and
gauged by those political requirements.
With this in mind the relevant Party
Congresses decide on the electoral pro-
gramme and coalition agreement.
We will not participate in any govern-
ment that wages war and authorises
Bundeswehr combat missions abroad,
that promotes armament and militarisa-
tion, that privatises services of general
Together for a policy change and a better society 77
interest or curtails social services, and
whose policy worsens the way the Public
Service performs its duties. For us a
change of policy at the federal level has
to centre on increasing the financial
latitude of the public purse and reinforc-
ing the welfare state. Especially impor-
tant for us are a strengthened public
service that is more capable of acting,
enforcement of the statutory minimum
wage, the fight against wage dumping
and substandard wages and abolishing
the Hartz IV system. DIE LINKE calls for a
policy that does away with social and
cultural education privileges and im-
proves the situation of the poorer popu-
lation groups. It campaigns for greater
democratic rights and takes a stand
against the surveillance state and further
inroads into civil rights.
Left policy must always be able to rely on
the trade unions and other social
movements and the mobilisation of
extra-parliamentary pressure, in gov-
ernment as well and indeed especially
there, so as not to succumb to the struc-
tural power of capital interests and par-
liamentary logic. We want to encourage
people to go into action themselves for
their interests.
European and international co-
operation
Together with the Party of the European
Left, the members of the Left group in
the European Parliament, activists in
political and social organisations and
social movements, we will continue to
fight for a democratic, socialist, ecologi-
cal and peaceful Europe. Such a re-
orientation of the EU cannot be imposed
just from within the Parliament. Without
the effective extra-parliamentary organi-
sation of a countervailing force, neither
the democratisation of the institutions
nor the democratisation of economic
power in the EU can be achieved. For
that reason we want to promote the
Europe-wide networking of extra-
parliamentary political grids and projects
in all subject areas.
DIE LINKE will make its contribution to
ensuring that the Party of the European
Left can act as an important factor in the
political life of Europe. Just like our party
in Germany, the Party of the European
Left is a step towards uniting the left and
can shift the balance of power toward a
democratic, social, ecological and peace-
ful Europe. We stand for equal rights for
all on the left within our European party.
We want our party and the Party of the
European Left to focus on their commo-
nalities, without forgetting the differenc-
es that exist. Only if we come together
on the basis of our shared ideas and
political approaches will we be strong. In
that spirit DIE LINKE will continue to
participate with its own proposals in the
work of the Party of the European Left
and in the shaping of left policies in Eu-
rope. We are looking for partners who
are willing to join us in the fight for
another Europe. That is the way alterna-
tives emerge that can rally majorities
behind them, that can intervene in so-
ciety’s debates and bring about changes
in the interest of the majority of Euro-
peans.
We attach special importance to the
partnerships with branches of left par-
ties in other European countries and
especially in the states neighbouring on
the Federal Republic. DIE LINKE has irre-
vocably broken with the Eurocentric
point of view. DIE LINKE is an internatio-
nalist party. It stands for world-wide
alliances with social movements.
78 Together for a policy change and a better society
A new political style
DIE LINKE stands for a new political style
of transparency, societal dialogue and
direct involvement of the citizenry. It is
only as strong as its roots in society and
the support it receives from society. Left
policy in parliaments requires driving
criticism, public pressure and extra-
parliamentary mobilisation. Women
have to experience DIE LINKE as a repre-
sentative of their interests and find in it a
political space where they can act for
political changes unhindered by patriar-
chal gender relationships. Career politi-
cians work closely with those active for
DIE LINKE on a volunteer basis. All mem-
bers of the state, federal and European
parliaments are obliged to disclose de-
tails on the source and amount of their
income. No member of parliament may
be on the payroll of a company or busi-
ness association during the period of his
or her mandate. Our party does not
accept donations from corporations or
banks.
The potentialities of DIE LINKE reside in
the skills of its members, their roots in
society and their experience of life. In-
volvement and interest in politics arise
through self-determined and equal ac-
tion and democratic co-determination in
shaping and advancing social processes.
We want to live that vision in our own
party as well. DIE LINKE develops its
policy democratically anchored in the
grass roots, in close collaboration be-
tween elected leadership bodies and
members. Pluralism and transparency
are cornerstones of our party. DIE LINKE
must discuss decisions on political direc-
tion in the party with the participation of
its extra-parliamentary base and resolve
how it will conduct itself in binding
members’ votes.
Together for a better society
More and more people are rejecting
unbridled capitalism and want a society
of freedom, social equality, justice and
solidarity. Together with them, DIE LINKE
wants to fight for a democratic, social
and ecological society, for democratic
socialism. The alternative is not "free-
dom or socialism" but democracy and
freedom in a society of democratic so-
cialism without exploitation and oppres-
sion. Together we can change this coun-
try and build a better society
